In what country is Normandy located?
When were the Normans in Normandy?
From which countries did the Norse originate?
Who was the Norse leader?
What century did the Normans first gain their separate identity?
Who gave their name to Normandy in the 1000's and 1100's
What is France a region of?
Who did King Charles III swear fealty to?
When did the Frankish identity emerge?
Who was the duke in the battle of Hastings?
Who ruled the duchy of Normandy
What religion were the Normans
What type of major impact did the Norman dynasty have on modern Europe?
Who was famed for their Christian spirit?
Who assimilted the Roman language?
Who ruled the country of Normandy?
What principality did William the conquerer found?
What is the original meaning of the word Norman?
When was the Latin version of the word Norman first recorded?
What name comes from the English words Normans/Normanz?
When was the French version of the word Norman first recorded?
When was the Duchy of Normandy founded?
Who did Rollo sign the treaty of Saint-Clair-sur-Epte with?
What river originally bounded the Duchy
when did Nors encampments ivolve into destructive incursions?
What treaty was established in the 9th century?
Who established a treaty with King Charles the third of France?
What did the French promises to protect Rollo and his men from?
Who upon arriving gave the original viking settlers a common identity?
When did Rollo begin to arrive in Normandy?
What Viking groups were conquered by Rollo?
What was the Norman religion?
What part of France were the Normans located?
What was replace with the Norse religion?
What did maternal Old Norse traditions merge with?
What language replaced the Gallo-Romance language?
What was one of the Norman's major exports?
Who adopted the fuedel doctrines of the Normans?
What was one of the Norman's major imports?
Who's arristocracy eventually served as avid Crusaders?
Who was the Normans' main enemy in Italy, the Byzantine Empire and Armenia?
Who entered Italy soon after the Byzantine Empire?
Who did the Normans fight in Italy?
Who did the Normans encourage to come to the south?
During what campaign did the Vargian and Lombard fight?
When did Herve serve as a Byzantine general?
When did Robert Crispin go up against the Turks?
Who ruined Roussel de Bailleul's plans for an independent state?
Who was the first Byzantine mercenary to serve with the Normans?
When did Herve serve as a Norman general?
Who ruined Alexius Komnenos plans for an independent state?
When did Herve go up against the Turks?
What was the name of the Norman castle?
Who was the leader when the Franks entered the Euphrates valley?
Who did the Normans team up with in Anatolia?
Who joined Norman forces in the destruction of the Armenians?
Who did the Turks take up service with?
What Frank led Norman forces?
Where did Oursel lead the Franks?
What were the origins of the Raouliii family?
Where were several Norman mercenary familes originate from?
Who did the Normans serve under in the 10th century?
What expedition did George Maniaces lead in the 10th century?
What was the name of the count of Apulia 
When did Dyrrachium  fall to the Normans?
How many men were in Robert's army?
Who ultimatly drove the Byzantines out of Europe?
What pope opposed Roberts campaign?
What fell to the Normans in the 10th century?
How many men did Roberts army face?
Where did the Normans and Byzantines sign the peace treaty?
Who was Robert's son?
What river was Petrela located by?
Who did the Normans besiege in the 11th century?
Who did Robert lead agains Dyrrachium in 1107?
Who was Bohemond's son?
When did the Normans attack Dyrrachium?
What was the naval base called?
Where was Dyrrachium located?
Who attacked Dyrrachium in the 11th century?
Who betrayed the Normans?
What naval base fell to the Normans?
Who did Emma Marry?
Who was Emma's brother?
To where did Ethelred flee?
Who kicked Ethelred out?
Who married Cnut the Great?
When did Richard II flee to Normandy?
Who's major ports were controlled by the English?
Who was Edward the Confessor's half-brother?
When did Edward return?
Who did Edward make archbishop of Canterbury?
When did Edward the Confessor's son return from his fathers refuge?
What kind of force did Harthacnut establish?
Who made Robert of Jumieges earl of Hereford?
Where did Harold II die?
Who killed Harold II? 
When was the Battle of Hastings?
Who was the ruling class ahead of the Normans?
When did King Harold II conquer England?
What battle took place in the 10th century?
Who replaced the Normans as the ruling class?
Who considered their land on the continent their most important holding?
What was the Anglo-Norman language's final form?
Who identified themselves as French during the Hundred Years War?
What was absorbed into the Anglo-Norman language?
Who made fun of the Latin language?
In what year did the Norman's invade at Bannow Bay?
What country did the Normans invade in 1169?
What culture did the Normans combine with in Ireland?
Where did the Normans invade in the 11th century?
Who did the Irish culture have a profound effect on?
What castles were built by the Irish?
Who was Margaret's brother?
Who was Margaret's husband?
When was Scotland invaded by William?
Who was the hostage?
Who did Edgar marry?
Who invaded Scotland in the 10th century?
Who did the Scotish king take hostage?
Who did Alexander I marry?
What culture's arrival in Scotland is know as the "Davidian Revolution"?
Who did King David I of Scotland Marry?
What did Sybilla of Normandy introduce to Scotland?
Where was Ralph earl of?
Who was Ralph in charge of being at war with?
Who made Ralph earl?
Who came into contact with Wales after the conquest of England?
Who made Edward the Confessor Earl?
What country was under the control of Norman barons?
What came under Williams dominace before the conquest?
What Welsh lords did William conquer?
What year did Roger de Tosny fail to accomplish what he set out to do?
Who was in charge of the papal army in the War of Barbastro?
Where did the Normans carve out a principality before the First Crusade?
What did the Normans take part in in the 10th century?
Who carved out a state for himself from Moorish lands?
What war occured in the 1oth century?
When did the Siege of Antioch take place?
What was the name of Bohemond's nephew?
What major conquest did Tancred play a roll in?
When did Tancred lay siege to Antioch?
What was the name of Tancred's nephew?
How long did Western Europe control Cyprus?
Who defeated Anglo-Norman forces during the third Crusade?
Who dominated Western Europe for 380 years?
What ruined Richard's plans to reach Acre?
Who was Richard's fiancee?
What year did the storm hit Richard's fleet?
Who ruled Cyprus in 1191?
Who left Messina in the 11th century?
What year did Richards fleet avoid a storm?
Who ruled Cyprus in the 11th century?
Who was Guy's Rival?
What were Isaac's chains made out of?
Who led Richard's troops when Cyprus was conquered?
Who's chains were made out of copper?
Who led Issacs troops to Cyprus?
Who offered Issac his daughter?
What continent are the Canarian Islands off the coast of?
Who conquered the Canary Island in the 14th century?
What Islands are of the coast of Asia?
Who became the King of the Canary Islands?
Who bought the rights?
Who sold the rights?
What title did Henry II take in the Canary Island?
Who sold the rights to the island in the 14th century?
Where are Jersey and Guernsey
How many customaries does Norman customary law have?
What Norman law wasdeveloped between 1000 and 1300?
What law has 3 customeries?
What was authored in the 12th century?
What is the Norman architecture idiom?
What kind of arches does Norman architecture have?
What type of arch did the Normans invent?
What architecture type came after Norman in England?
What architecture type came before Norman in England?
What place had the Norman Arab architectural style?
What precedes the period of Anglo-Saxon architecture?
What architecture type came after Early Gothic?
Who incorperated Islamic, LOmbard, and Byzantine building techniques in England?
When did the church reform begin?
Who used the church to unify themselves?
What kind of art did the Normans have a rich tradition of?
Who began a program of church reform in the 1100s
Who was divided by the church?
Who experienced aa golden age in the 1100s and 1200s
When were the French wars of religion?
What wars did France fight in the 1600s?
What revolution was fought in the 1899's?
What kind of needlework was used in the creation of the Bayeux Tapestry?
What is Norman art's most well known piece?
Who commissioned the Tapestry?
What is the oldest work of Norman art?
Who commissioned Danish vikings to create the Bayeux Tapestry?
What is the most important type of Norman art preserved in churches?
How has British art survived in Normandy?
What is the most common form of Norman art in churches?
What was a centre of ivorywork in the 1100s?
In what century did important classical music developments occur in Normandy?
Who were the two abbots at Fécamp Abbey?
What developed in Normandy during the 1100s?
What was Fecamp Abby the center of?
Where did the monks flee to?
What monastery did the Saint-Evroul monks establish in Italy?
Who patronized the monks in Italy? 
What tradition were the Saint-Evroul monks known for?
Who fled from southern Italy?
What branch of theoretical computer science deals with broadly classifying computational problems by difficulty and class of relationship?
By what main attribute are computational problems classified utilizing computational complexity theory? 
What is the term for a task that generally lends itself to being solved by a computer?
What is computational complexity principle?
What branch of theoretical computer class deals with broadly classifying computational problems by difficulty and class of relationship?
What is understood to be a task that is in principle not amendable to being solved by a computer?
 What cannot be solved by mechanical application of mathematical steps?
What is a manual application of mathematical steps?
What measure of a computational problem broadly defines the inherent difficulty of the solution?
What method is used to intuitively assess or quantify the amount of resources required to solve a computational problem?
What are two basic primary resources used to guage complexity?
What unit is measured to determine circuit complexity?
What practical role does defining the complexity of problems play in everyday computing?
What measure of computational problem broadly defines the inherent simplicity of the solution?
What method is not used to intuitively assess or quantify the amount of resources required to solve a computational problem??
What are three basic primary resources used to gauge complexity?
What unit is measured to determine circuit simplicity?
What number is used in perpendicular computing?
What two fields of theoretical computer science closely mirror computational complexity theory?
What field of computer science analyzes the resource requirements of a specific algorithm isolated unto itself within a given problem?
What field of computer science analyzes all possible algorithms in aggregate to determine the resource requirements needed to solve to a given problem?  
What field of computer science is primarily concerned with determining the likelihood of whether or not a problem can ultimately be solved using algorithms?
What are two fields of theoretical computer science that closely mirror computational simplicity theory?
What is not the key distinction between analysis of algorithms and computational complexity theory?
What is the process of analyzing the amount of resources needed by a particular algorithm to solve a hypothesis?
What is the process that asks a more specific question about all possible algorithms that could not be used to solve the same problem?
What process classifies problems that can and cannot be solved with approximately unlimited resources?
What is the name given to the input string of a computational problem?
In computational complexity theory, what is the term given to describe the baseline abstract question needing to be solved? 
Is a problem instance typically characterized as abstract or concrete?
What is another name for any given measure of input associated with a problem?
What is the general term used to describe the output to any given input in a problem instance?
What can be viewed as a limited collection of instances together with a solution for every instance?
What is the name given to the input string of a computational solution?
What term refers to the concrete question to be solved?
What is the output corresponding to the given question?
What is a particular measure input associated with the a theory?
By how many kilometers does the traveling salesman problem seek to classify a route between the 15 largest cities in Germany?
What is one example of an instance that the quantitative answer to the traveling salesman problem fails to answer?
What does computational complexity theory most specifically seek to answer? 
How many miles does the traveling salesman problem seek to classify a route between the 15 smallest cities in Germany?
What is the qualitative answer to this particular problem instance?
What is one example of an instance that the qualitative answer to the traveling salesman fails to answer?
What does computational simplicity theory most specifically seek to answer?
In a computational problem, what can be described as a string over an alphabet?
What is the name of the alphabet is most commonly used in a problem instance?
What is another term for the string of a problem instance?
In the encoding of mathematical objects, what is the way in which integers are commonly expressed?
What is one way in which graphs can be encoded? 
What is a string over a Greek number when considering a computational problem?
What is the name of the alphabet that is rarely used in a problem instance?
What is another term for the the string of a problem question?
What is represented by non-binary notation in the encoding of mathematical objects?
How can graphs be encoded indirectly?
What kind of problems are one of the main topics studied in computational complexity theory?
What are the two simple word responses to a decision problem?
What are the two integer responses to a decision problem?
What will the output be for a member of the language of a decision problem?
What answer denotes that an algorithm has accepted an input string?
What kind of solutions are one of the central objects of study in computational complexity theory?
What is a typical type of computational problem whose answer is either yer or no?
What can be viewed as an informal language where the language instances whose input is yes?
What are the three integer responses to a decision problem?
What answer denotes that a solution has accepted an input string?
What kind of graph is an example of an input used in a decision problem?
What is the term for the set of all connected graphs related to this decision problem?
What encoding decision needs to be made in order to determine an exact definition of the formal language?
What type of graph is an example of an output used in a decision problem?
What is the term for the set of all unconnected graphs related to this decision problem?
What encoding decision needs to be made in order to determine an inaccurate definition of the formal language? 
How does one obtain an indefinite definition of this language?
A function problem is an example of what?
How many outputs are expected for each input in a function problem?
The traveling salesman problem is an example of what type of problem?
In addition to the traveling salesman problem, what is another example of a function problem?
Is the output of a functional problem typically characterized by a simple or complex answer?
What is a computational solution where a single input is expected for every input?
What is expected where a computational problems offers multiple outputs are expected for every input?
What is a function solution an example of?
What are other irrelevant examples of a function problem>
Is the output of a functional solution typically characterized by a simple or complex answer?
How can function problems typically be restated?
If two integers are multiplied and output a value, what is this expression set called?
What can not be restated as decision problems?
What is the expression set called where three integers are multiplied?
What corresponds to solving the problem of multiplying three numbers/
What is a commonly used measurement used to determine the complexity of a computational problem?
What is one variable on which the running time may be contingent?
How is the time needed to obtain the solution to a problem calculated?
In what unit is the size of the input measured?
Complexity theory seeks to define the relationship between the scale of algorithms with respect to what other variable?
How does one measure the simplicity of a computational problem?
What is one variable which the running of time be not be contingent?
How is the time needed to obtain the question to a problem calculated?
What is  interested in how algorithms scale with a decrease in the input size?
How is time not required to solve a problem calculated?
Whose thesis states that the solution to a problem is solvable with reasonable resources assuming it allows for a polynomial time algorithm?
If input size is is equal to n, what can respectively be assumed is the function of n?
What term corresponds to the maximum measurement of time across all functions of n? 
How is worst-case time complexity written as an expression?
Assuming that T represents a polynomial in T(n), what is the term given to the corresponding algorithm?
How is time taken expressed as a function of x?
Whose hypothesis states the the solution to a problem is solvable with reasonable resources assuming it allows for monoinomial time algorithm?
What term corresponds to the minimum measurement of the time across all functions of n?
How is best-case time complexity written as an expression?
What is the term given to the corresponding algorithm assuming that T represents a mononominal in T(n)?
What is the term for a mathematical model that theoretically represents a general computing machine?
It is generally assumed that a Turing machine can solve anything capable of also being solved using what?
What is the most commonplace model utilized in complexity theory?
What does a Turing machine handle on a strip of tape?
What a scientific model of a general computing machine?
What is a scientific device that manipulates symbols contained on a strip of tape?
What are intended as a practical computing technology?
What is a scientific experiment that can solve a problem by algorithms?
What is generally considered to be the most basic iteration of a Turing machine?
What fixed set of factors determine the actions of a deterministic Turing machine
What is the term used to identify a deterministic Turing machine that has additional random bits?
What type of Turing machine is capable of multiple actions and extends into a variety of computational paths?
What is the term given to algorithms that utilize random bits?
What uses a flexible set of rules to determine its future actions?
What is a deterministic Turing machine with an extra supply of random ribbons?
What does not often help algorithms solve problems more efficiently?
Which machine allows the machine to have multiple possible past actions from a given state?
How is one way that one should not view non-determinism?
Turing machines are commonly employed to define what? 
What are two factors that directly effect how powerful a Turing machine may or may not be?
In the determination of complexity classes, what are two examples of types of Turing machines?
What are many types of Turing machines not used for?
What are three factors that directly effect how powerful a Turing machine may or may not be?
What machines are not equally powerful in principle?
What may not be more powerful than others when the resources of time or space of considered?
What is an example of a machine model that deviates from a generally accepted multi-tape Turing machine?
In considering Turing machines and alternate variables, what measurement left unaffected by conversion between machine models? 
What two resources commonly consumed by alternate models are typically known to vary?
What commonality do alternate machine models, such as random access machines, share with Turing machines?
What is not an example of a machine model that deviates from a generally accepted multi-tape Turing machine?
What measurement is affected by conversion between machine models?
What two resources are uncommonly consumed by alternate models and are typically known to vary?
What do all these models not have in common?
What type of Turing machine can be characterized by checking multiple possibilities at the same time?
What often affects or facilitates ease of analysis in computational problems?
A non-deterministic Turing machine has the ability to capture what facet of useful analysis?
What is the most critical resource in the analysis of computational problems associated with non-deterministic Turing machines?
What is harder to analyze in terms of more unusual resources?
What type of machine is a computational model that is not allowed to branch out to check many different possibilities at once?
What has a lot to do with how we physically want to compute algorithms?
What machine's branching does not exactly capture many of the mathematical models we want to analyze?
What is the least critical resource in the analysis of computational problems associated with non-deterministic Turing machines?
The time required to output an answer on a deterministic Turing machine is expressed as what?
Complexity theory classifies problems based on what primary attribute?
What is the expression used to identify any given series of problems capable of being solved within time on a deterministic Turing machine?
What is the most critical resource measured to in assessing the determination of a Turing machine's ability to solve any given set of problems?
What is not used for a precise definition of what it means to solve a problem using a given amount of time and space?
How is Turing machine M said not to operate?
What is the expression used to identify any given series of solutions capable of being solved within time on a deterministic Turing machine?
What is the least critical resource measured in assessing the determination of a Turing machine's ability to solve any given set of problems?
How can decision problem B be solved in time x(f)?
Time and space are both examples of what type of resource?
A complexity resource can also be described as what other type of resource?
What is typically used to broadly define complexity measures?
Communication complexity is an example of what type of measure?
Decision tree is an example of what type of measure?
What can not be made for space requirements?
What are the least well known complexity resources?
How are complexity measures generally not defined?
What are other complexity measures not used in complexity theory?
What type of measure is communication complexity not an example of?
What are the three primary expressions used to represent case complexity?
Case complexity likelihoods provide variable probabilities of what general measure? 
What is one common example of a critical complexity measure?
Case complexities provide three likelihoods of what differing variable that remains the same size? 
What are the three secondary expressions used to represent case complexity? 
What three different ways are used to measure space complexity?
What is one not common example of a critical complexity measure?
What differing variable remains the same size when providing the four likelihoods of case complexities?
What provides a solution to a list of integers provided as input that ned to be sorted?
When extensive time is required to sort integers, this represents what case complexity?
What is the expression used to denote a worst case complexity as expressed by time taken?
What does not solve the problem of sorting a list of integers that is given as the input?
What does the deterministic parting algorithm quicksort do?
What case complexity is represented when limited time is required to sort integers?
What is the expression not used to denote worst case complexity as expressed by time taken?
What case complexity is represented when each pivoting divides the list in thirds, also needing O(n log n) time?
Classification of resources is contingent on determining the upper and lower bounds of minimum time required by what?  
The analysis of a specific algorithm is typically assigned to what field of computational science?
Which bound of time is more difficult to establish?
A specific algorithm demonstrating T(n) represents what measure of time complexity?
What is the colloquial phrase used to convey the continuum of algorithms with unlimited availability irrespective of time? 
How does one note classify the computation time (or similar resources)?
What is usually taken as the best case complexity, unless specified otherwise?
What does not fall under the field of analysis of algorithms>
When does one not need to show only that there is a particular algorithm running time at mons T(nO?
What is easy about proving lower bounds?
What expression is generally used to convey upper or lower bounds?
What does a big O notation hide?
How would one write T(n) = 7n2 + 15n + 40 in big O notation? 
Big O notation provides autonomy to upper and lower bounds with relationship to what? 
What is usually not stated using the big O notation?
What does not hide constant factors or smaller terms?
What makes the bounds dependent of the specific details of the computational model?
How would one abbreviate T(n)=8n2 + 16n = 40 in big O notatation?
What has complicated definitions that prevent classification into a framework?
Complexity classes are generally classified into what?
Difficulty in establishing a framework for complexity classes can be caused by what variable?
What fits the framework of complexity classes?
What has uncomplicated definitions that prevent classification into a framework?
What are complexity classes generally not classified into?
What variable is easy to establish in a framework for complexity classes?
Concrete bounding of computation time frequently produces complexity classes contingent upon what?
A multi-tape Turing machine requires what type of time for a solution?
A language solved in quadratic time implies the use of what type of Turing machine?
What thesis specifies that a polynomial relationship exists within time complexities in a computational model? 
Decision problems capable of being solved by a deterministic Turing machine while maintaining adherence to polynomial time belong to what class?
What does not often yield complexity classes that depend on the chosen machine model?
What does not frequently produce complexity classes that have concrete bounding of computation time?
What can not be solved in linear time on multi-tape Turing machine?
What is not a binary string?
What thesis specifies that a trinomial relationship exists within time complexities in a computational model?
What are two examples of measurements are bound within algorithms to establish complexity classes?
What function is used by algorithms to define measurements like time or space?
Bounding of time and space or similar measurements is often used by algorithms to define what?
What cannot be defined by bounding the time or space used the the algorithm?
What are three examples of measurement that are bound within algorithms to establish complexity classes?
What function is used by algorithms to define measurements like time and numbers?
What is often used by algorithms to measure bounding of space and atmosphere measurements?
What are three examples of complexity classes associated with definitions established by probabilistic Turing machines?
AC and NC are complexity classes typically associated with what type of circuit?
BQP and QMA are examples of complexity classes most commonly associated with what type of Turing machine?
What is the expression used to represent a complexity class of counting problems?
IP and AM are most commonly defined by what type of proof system?
What are the other four important complexity classes?
What machine does not define BPP, ZPP, and RP?
What machine does not define BQP or QMA?
What is least important complexity class of counting problems?
What system not often define classes like IP and AM/
What is an example of a measurement within a complexity class that would create a bigger set of problems if the bounds were relaxed?
In what expression can one expect to find DTIME(n)
What theorems are responsible for determining questions of time and space requirements?
Resources are constrained by hierarchy theorems to produce what?
What kind of statement is made in the effort of establishing the time and space requirements needed to enhance the ultimate number of problems solved?
What is not an example of a measurement within a complexity class that would create a bigger set of problems if the bounds were relaxed?
What does not define a bigger set of problems?
What expression does not usually contain DTIME(n)?
What does not induce a proper hierarchy on the classes defined by constraining the respective resources?
What kind of statement is not made in an effort of establishing the time and space requirements needed to enhance the ultimate number of problems solved?
What is the foundation for separation results within complexity classes?
What is responsible for constraining P according to the time hierarchy theorem?
Within what variable is L constrained according to the space hierarchy theorem?
What does not form the basis for most separation results of complexity classes?
What does the past time and space hierarchy theorems form the basis of?
What is not strictly contained in EXPTIME?
What is not strictly contained in PSPACE?
What concept is frequently used to define complexity classes?
Reduction essentially takes one problem and converts into what?
According to reduction, if X and Y can be solved by the same algorithm then X performs what function in relationship to Y?
What are two examples of different types of reduction?
Polynomial time reductions are an example of what?
What are many complexity classes not defined by?
What is defined by using the theorem of reduction?
What is a transformation of two problems into on three problems?
What captures the formal notion of a problem being at lease as difficult as another problem?
What are the six types of reductions?
What is the most frequently employed type of reduction?
What equates to a squared integer according to polynomial time reduction?
What measurement of time is used in polynomial time reduction?
What would need to remain constant in a multiplication algorithm to produce the same outcome whether multiplying or squaring two integers?  
According to polynomial time reduction squaring can ultimately be logically reduced to what?
What is the least used type of reduction?
What is the meaning of polynomial-space reduction?
What can the problem of dividing an integer be reduced to?
What does one not need to remain constant in a multiplication algorithm to produce the same outcome whether multiplying or squaring two integers?
What is more difficult that multiplication?
The complexity of problems often depends on what?
What would create a conflict between a problem X and problem C within the context of reduction? 
An algorithm for X which reduces to C would us to do what?
A problem set that that is hard for the expression NP can also be stated how?
What does the complexity of problems not often depend on?
What would not create a conflict between a problem X and problem C within the context of reduction?
What problem in C is harder than X?
How is a problem set that is hard for expression QP be stated?
The hardest problems in NP can be analogously written as what class of problems?
NP complete problems contain the lowest likelihood of being located in what problem class?
If P = NP is unsolved, and reduction is applied to a known NP-complete problem vis a vis Π2 to  Π1, what conclusion can be drawn for Π1?
If polynomial time can be utilized within an NP-complete problem, what does the imply P is equal to?
What happens if a problem X is in C, and soft for C?
What is the softest problem in C?
What is class contains the the least difficult problems in NP?
What would indicate that there is a known polynomial-time solution for Ii1?
What complexity class is characterized by a computational tasks and efficient algorithms?
What hypothesis is associated with the complexity class of P viewed as a mathematical abstraction with efficient algorithmic functionality?
What complexity class is commonly characterized by unknown algorithms to enhance solvability?
What is an example of a problem that rests within the NP complexity class?
In what theoretical machine is it confirmed that a problem in P belies membership in the NP class?
What is often seen as a scientific abstraction modeling those computational tasks that admit an efficient algorithm?
What theory is the Cobham-Edward thesis?
What complexity class is not commonly characterized by unknown algorithms to enhance solubility?
What is an example of a problem that rests within the NP simplicity class?
What ,theoretical machine did not confirm that a problem in P belies membership in the NX class?
If P is ultimately proven to be equal tot NP, what effect would this have on the efficiency of problems?
What is a particular problem in biology that would benefit from determining that P = NP?
What is the prize offered for finding a solution to P=NP?
What is one of the least important open questions in theoretical computer science?
What effect would happen if P is ultimately proven to not equal NP ?
What is a particular problem in chemistry that would benefit from determining that P = NP?
What problem was proposed by Clay Mathematics Institute at the Alpha Prize Problems?
What was the prize for finding a solution to P=NP at the the Alpha Prize Problems?
Who demonstrated that P= NP implies problems not present in P or NP-complete?
What is the name for a problem that meets Ladner's assertion?
What is an example of an NP-intermediate problem not known to exist in P or NP-complete? 
Who showed that if P=NQ then there exists problems in NQ that are neither P nor NQ-complete?
What is the name a a problem that meets Ladder's assertion?
What is not example of an NP-intermediate problem not known to exist in P or NP-complete?
What are four examples of problems believed to be NP=intermediate?
What is the problem attributed to defining if two finite graphs are isomorphic?
What class is most commonly not ascribed to the graph isomorphism problem in spite of definitive determination?
What finite hierarchy implies that the graph isomorphism problem is NP-complete? 
To what level would the polynomial time hierarchy collapse if graph isomorphism is NP-complete?
Who are commonly associated with the algorithm typically considered the most effective with respect to finite polynomial hierarchy and graph isomorphism?
What is the graph isolation problem? 
What is the problem attributed to defining if three finite graphs are isomorphic?
What is an important solved problem in complexity theory?
What infinite hierarchy implies that the graph isomorphism problem s NQ-complete?
What would the polynomial hierarchy collapse if graph isomorphism is NQ-complete?
What computational problem is commonly associated with prime factorization?
The integer factorization problem essentially seeks to determine if the value of of an input is less than what variable? 
That there currently exists no known integer factorization problem underpins what commonly used system?
What is the most well-known algorithm associated with the integer factorization problem?
What is the integer practice problem?
What computational problem is not commonly associated with prime factorization?
What problem is phrased on deciding whether the input has a factor more than k?
What problem would have polynomial time hierarchy that would collapse to its second level?
What is the least well known algorithm associated with the the integer factorization problem?
What is the unproven assumption generally ascribed to the value of complexity classes?
What is an expression that can be used to illustrate the suspected inequality of complexity classes?
Where can the complexity classes RP, BPP, PP, BQP, MA, and PH be located?
What evidence between and among complexity classes would signify a theoretical watershed for complexity theory?
What is the proven assumption generally ascribed to the value of complexity classes?
What is an expression that caan be used to illustrate the suspected in equality of complexity classes?
Where can complexity classes RPP, BPP, PPP, BQP, MA, and PH be located?
What is impossible for the complexity classes RP, BPP, PP, BQP, MA, and PH?
What would not be a major breakthrough in complexity theory?
In what complexity class do complement problems of NP problems exist?
How do the yes/no answers of a complement problem of NP appear?
What is commonly believed to be the value relationship between P and co-NP
What implication can be derived for P and NP if P and co-NP are established to be unequal?
What complexity class do incompatible problems of NP problems exist?
How do the yes/no answers of an incompatible problem of of APPEAR?
What is not commonly believed to be the value relationship between P and co-NP?
What implication can not be derived for P and NP is P and co-NP are established to be unequal?
What variable is associated with all problems solved within logarithmic space?
Though unkown, what are the most commonly ascribed attributes of L in relation to P
What lies between L and P that prevents a definitive determination of the relationship between L and P?
What are two complexity classes between L and P?
What is unknown about the complexity classes between L and P that further prevents determining the value relationship between L and P?
What variable is not associated with all problems solved within logarithmic space?
What are the least commonly ascribed attributes of L in relation to P?
What does not lie between L and P that allows a definitive determination of the relationship between L and P?
What are three complexity classes between L and P?
What is known about the complexity between L and P that prevents determining the value between L and P?
Problems capable of theoretical solutions but consuming unreasonable time in practical application are known as what?
Intractable problems lacking polynomial time solutions necessarily negate the practical efficacy of what type of algorithm?
If NP is not equal to P, viewed through this lens, what type of problems can also be considered intractable?
What are problems that cannot be solved in theory, but which in practice take too long for their solutions to be useful?
When are problems that have polynomial-tome solutions in complexity theory?
What states that only problems that cannot be solved in polynomial time can be feasibly computed on some computational device?
When would a program not be useful for very small instances and in that sense the intractability of a problem is somewhat independent of technological progress?
What algorithm is always practical?
What eponymous variation of arithmetic presents a decision problem not evidenced in P?
Despite the Presburger problem, and in view of intractability, what has been done to establish solutions in reasonable periods of time?
What is an example of a problem to which effective algorithms have provided a solution in spite of the intractability associated with the breadth of sizes?
How quickly can an algorithm solve an NP-complete knapsack problem?
What is the example of another problem characterized by large instances that is routinely solved by SAT handlers employing efficient algorithms?
What unknown variation of arithmetic presents a decision problem not evidenced in P?
What has not been done to establish solutions in reasonable period of time?
What can not solve the NP-complete knapsack problem over a wide range of sizes in less than quadratic time?
What do SAT solvers not usually handle when testing?
What tactic did researchers employ to offset the former deficit of work surrounding the complexity of algorithmic problems?
Who was the most influential researcher among those grappling with the deficit of work surrounding the complexity posed by algorithmic problems?
What theoretical device is attributed to Alan Turing?
In what year was the Alan Turing's definitional model of a computing device received?
In the most basic sense what did a Turing machine emulate?
What were laid out by various companies?
What tactic did companies employ to offset the former deficit of work surrounding the complexity of algorithmic problems?
Who was the least influential researcher working on the complexity posed by algorithmic problems?
What device did Alan Turning invent in 1974?
What was the Turning calculator a robust and flexible simplification of?
What paper is commonly considered the bellwether ushering in systematic studies computational complexity?
What individuals were responsible for authoring "On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms"?
In what year was Hatmanis and Stearn's seminal work in computational complexity received? 
What complex measurements were defined by "On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms"?
In what year did Edmond's characterize a "good" algorithm?
What seminal paper is commonly considered the beginning of sociology studies?
Who wrote "On the Computational Complexity of Science"?
What seminal paper was written by Juris Hartmanis and Richard Stearns in 1975?
What simple measurements were defined by "On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms"?
Who provided a definition of linear bounded automata in 1960?
In what year did Raymond Sullivan publish a study of rudimentary sets?
In 1962, who was responsible for the authorship of a paper published on real time-computations?
Who wrote later papers studying problems solvable by Turning machines?
Who provided a definition of linear bounded automata in 1970?
What year did Dick Sullivan publish a study on rudimentary sets?
Who wrote a paper on real time computations in 1973?
Who was pioneer and studied specific complexity measure in 1948?
What is the concrete choice typically assumed by most complexity-theoretic theorems?
In the effort of maintaining a level of abstraction, what choice is typically left independent?
What can not be achieved by ensuring different representations can transformed into each other efficiently?
What is the abstract choice typically assumed by most complexity-theoretic theorems?
What does not regularly use input coding as its concrete choice?
What choice is typically left dependent in an effort to maintain a level of abstraction?
Who is responsible for axiomatic complexity theory?
What theorem was implicated by Manuel Blum's axioms?
What is the paper written by Richard Karp in 1972 that ushered in a new era of understanding between intractability and NP-complete problems?
How many combinatory and graph theoretical problems, formerly believed to be plagued by intractability, did Karp's paper address?
Who developed an axiomatic complexity theory based on his axioms in 1974?
Who is responsible for the so-called, speed-up theorem n 1974?
Who proved that these exist practical relevant problems that are NP-complete in 1961?
Who wrote the paper "Reductibility Among Combinatorial Problems" in 1974?
What book featured 25 diverse comninatorial and graph theoretical problems each famous for its computational intractability?
What is Southern California often abbreviated as?
Despite being traditionall described as "eight counties", how many counties does this region actually have?
What is a major importance of Southern California in relation to California and the United States?
What are the ties that best described what the "eight counties" are based on?
The reasons for the las two counties to be added are based on what?
What counties does the more extensive eight county definition of SoCal include?
What additional two counties make ten counties into the traditional definition of SoCal include?
Where is the center of economic activity for the United States?
What is the name of the region that is not defined by the eight or 10 county definitions?
How many megaregions are there in the United States?
What is the name of the state that the megaregion expands to in the east?
Which border does the megaregion extend over?
What is the name of the area past the border that the megaregion extends into?
What is one of the 10 megaregions in the United States?
Where does the 8 county megaregion extend from?
What is Las Vegas one of in the United States?
Which coastline does Southern California touch?
How many metropolitan areas does Southern California's population encompass?
How many inhabitants does the Los Angeles area contain?
Which of the three heavily populated areas has the least number of inhabitants?
How many people does the Greater Los Angeles Area have?
What percent of California's 22 million people live in southern California?
What does MAS stand for?
How many people live in Riverside? 
What does CSA stand for?
What is the name of the water body that is found to the east?
What is the name of the desert on the border of Arizona?
What is the name of the desert near the border of Nevada?
What is the name of the border to the south?
What desert is to the south near Arizona?
What desert is to the south near Nevada?
What direction is the Colorado-Mexico border?
The cities of Los Angeles and San Diego are a part of which state?
What is the population of Los Angeles?
Which city is the most populous in California?
What is the eighth most populous city in the nation?
In which cardinal direction from Los Angeles is San Diego?
What are two of the three major cities located in southern California?
What city has a population of 3,792,261?
What city has a population of 1,307,204?
What second most populous city is north of Los Angeles?
Orange, San Diego, Riverside and San Bernardino make up four of the five counties. What is the name of the last county?
What country are all the counties in?
What are Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, San Bernardino and Riverside?
What is the lowest ranking one of the counties could have in terms of most populous counties in the United States?
What is the smallest geographical region discussed?
What are the five most populous counties in the United States?
How many populous counties are in the United States?
What county are Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, San Bernardino, and Riverside located in?
What is the name given to the district that is associated with the motion picture industry?
Which city does the Hollywood district belong to?
Which company owns ABC?
Other than the motion picture and television industry, what other major industry is centered in Los Angeles?
Other than Universal and Warner Brothers, what other company runs a major record company?
What company owns ACB?
What three industries are centered in Hollywood?
Where is Los Angeles a district of?
What major companies are headquartered in Los Angeles? 
Other than surf, what other culture is southern California home to?
What is the name of the professional skateboarder that lives in southern California?
What famous snowbaorder lives in southern California?
Southern California is second to which island in terms of famous serf breaks?
What is the shortened name of the annual yacht race that takes place?
Where are No Fear and RCVA headquartered?
Who are Rob Curran and Tim Machado?
Where does professional surfer Tony Hawk live?
What famous surfing spots is Oahu second to?
What was held at the San Diego Yacht Club from 1985 to 1998?
What is the name of the desert city?
Other than the desert city why do many locals and tourists frequent southern California?
Which region of California is Palm Springs located in?
Other than for its resort feel, what is Palm Springs popular for?
Who visits Palm Springs for the beaches?
What is the desert of southern California popular for?
Which coast is the desert on?
Geographically speaking, where is California's north - south midway point in terms of latitude?
How many miles south of San Jose is the north - south midway point located?
The term "southern" California usually refers to how many of the southern-most counties of the state?
Other than Point Conception, what landmark is used in the other definition of southern California?
Point Conception is an example of a landmark among what boundary of southern California?
What lies at 37° 8' 59.23" latitude?
What is around 18 miles south of San Jose?
What lies at 35° 48′ 27″ north latitude?
What uses Point Tehachapi and the Conception Mountains as the northern boundary?
Which country used to rule California?
Los Angeles is in the lower part of what?
Which Californio is located in the upper part?
What was the name of the legislation passed in 1850?
The legislation allowed California to be admitted to the Union as what kind of state?
What country did California once rule?
Who were there disputes between when California ruled Mexico?
What line is at 30 degrees, 36 minutes?
What was passed in 1805?
Other than land laws, what else were the Californios dissatisfied with?
What was the name given to the regions in which the pro - slavery southerners lived?
How many times did southern California attempt to achieve a separate statehood?
What was the percentage of people that voted in favor of the Pico Act of 1859?
Which Senator was a strong advocate for the Pico Act?
Who attempted to achieve a separate statehood in 1805?
What was passed in 1895?
Who was the governor of California in 1895?
Who was elected in 1859?
What title did Latham Milton hold?
Which newspaper defined southern California?
In which year did the newspaper define southern California?
In which year did the newspaper change its previous definition?
What was the newer county added to the list?
How many counties initially made up the definition of southern California?
How did the Los Angeles Times define southern California in 1909?
What did the Los Angeles Times add to the definition of southern California in 1990?
What did the California Times define twice?
Which organizations most commonly divide and promote the state?
Other than the Automobile Club of Southern California, what other AAA Auto Club chose to simplify the divide?
The two AAA clubs divided the state into a northern and southern California as opposed to what point of view?
Which mountain range influenced the split of the regions?
In the definition based off the mountain range, which region would the desert portions of north Los Angeles County be included in?
What type of club is the California Automobile State Association?
What type of club is the Southern California Automobile Club?
What type of phrase is North of the Tehachapis?
What type of groups divides California into only north and central regions?
Where does southern California's megalopolis standard in terms of population nationwide?
Although southern california consts of a heavily developed urban environment, how much of it has been left undeveloped?
Southern Californian communities are well known to be large, spread - out, and what other characteristic?
Outside of its use of automobiles, what else is southern California famous for using?
What kind of region can be found inside the urban area of southern California?
What are the second and third most populated megalopolis after Southern California?
What are the dominant areas of Los Angeles?
What international metropolitan region is in the Northeastern megalopolis?
What is the main gap to continued urbanization?
Other than the San Diego metropolitan area, what other area are the communities along Interstates 15 and 215 connected with?
Who considers Los Angeles County to be a separate metropolitan area?
Other than L.A. which other county do many people commute to?
Other than the 1980s, in which decade did most of San Bernardino and Riverside Counties develop?
What was developed in 1980?
What counties to most people commute to?
What formed in the Coachella Valley north of Orange County?
What counties near Kern-Bakersfield County was population growth high?
What kind of climate does southern California maintain?
Other than many sunny days, what characteristic is typical for the climate in souther California?
What is the low end of the temperature range in summer?
How frequent is snow in the Southwest of the state?
What is the high end of the temperature range in winter?
What type of climate does California have?
Where are summer temperature ranges 70-50s?
Where are winter temperature ranges 90-60s?
What is rare on the Southeast of the state?
What term best describes southern California's collection of landscapes?
The region spans starting at islands found in which body of water?
What type of landscapes other than geologic and natural ecosystem landscapes can be found in southern California?
The region spans which mountains other than the Transverse ranges?
The mountain ranges tail off into what kind of geographical formation?
What types of collections does desert California have?
What ocean has the Transverse and Peninsular Ranges?
What ocean has large and small interior valleys?
What area has the most diversity of anywhere in the country?
How many earthquakes does southern California experience in a year?
Generally speaking, what size are the earthquakes that hit southern California?
What magnitude was the 1994 Northridge earthquake?
What kind of destruction did the 1994 earthquake cause the most of in US history?
How much was the 1994 earthquake estimated to have cost?
What year was the Northridge earthquake that caused $20 million in damage?
What earthquake caused $20 million in damage?
How many earthquakes does the state of California have each year?
How many earthquakes are greater than a 4.7 magnitude?
Which fault can produce a magnitude earthquake of 8.0?
What magnitude of earthquake can many faults produce?
Other than the San Jacinto Fault, and the Elsinore Fault, name one other fault.
Which organization released a California Earthquake forecast?
The earthquake forecast models what features of earthquakes in California?
What fault can produce a magnitude 8.7 event?
What faults other than the San Andreas can produce a magnitude 8.0 event? 
What did the UGSS release?
What does the UGSS California Earthquake forecast model?
Southern California's distinctive regions are divided culturally, politically and what other trait?
Outside of national recognition, what other kind of recognition do some of the cities get?
Cities that anchor the regions are often the hub for what kind of activity?
What are regions anchored by that are recognized globally?
What are the globally recognized anchor cities known for?
How is California divided?
Southern California had a population of 22,680,010 according to the census from which year?
What does southern California have a reputation for?
What is the state average growth rate?
What kind of economy did northern California start to grow in the 2000s?
Which region began to grow and assert itself in the 2000s?
What census showed southern California as having a population of 26,860, 010?
How much did southern California grow in the year 2000?
What economy started growing in the Greater Bay Region?
What city is in the Greater Bay Region?
What is the name associated with the eight areas that make up a part of southern California?
How many extended metropolitan areas are there?
Each of the extended metropolitan areas has a population that exceeds what number?
What does the El Centro metropolitan area and San Diego-Carslbad-San Marcos metropolitan area form?
What is the population of the Greater Los Angeles Area?
What consists of one Metropolitan Statistical Area?
What consists of eight Combined Statistical Areas?
What area has a population of 17,786,914?
What area has a population of 5,105,786?
What areas are north of Greater Santa Barbara?
What is the largest city in all of California?
What is the population of the second largest city in California?
How many cities in southern California have over 200,000 residents?
There are 34 cities in southern California that have a population exceeding what number?
Other than San Bernardino, which other developed southern Californian city is not in close proximity to the coast?
What are the two largest cities in the United States?
Where are there 34 cities over 200,000 in population?
Where are there 12 cities over 100,000 in population?
What city has a population of 3.3 million people?
What city has a population of 1.7 million people?
What resource is the economy of southern California depedent on?
Southern California is most famous for tourism and what notably named district?
The region was a leader in what event between 2001 - 2007?
Southern California's economy can be described as one of the largest in the United States and what other characteristic?
What was the effect of the housing crash on the region?
Who does the largest economy in the United States belong to?
What took place during 2000-2017?
What is southern California's economy completely dependent upon?
Where is southern Hollywood located?
Motion pictures, petroleum and aircraft manufacturing have been major industries since which decade?
What characteristic best describes the agricultural regions that could be found?
Which type of livestock was the argricultural region known for?
Outside of livestock, what else was considered a major industry in the agriculture regions?
What industry has managed to survive major military spending cutbacks?
What have been major industries since 1902?
What were major industries until suburbs were turned into farmlands?
What is a major factor even with aerospace cutbacks?
What year were farmlands turned into suburbs?
What type of district is southern California home to many of?
What does CBD stand for?
What is the only district in the CBD to not have "downtown" in it's name?
What does CDB stand for?
What does CDB include?
What does DCB stand for?
Downtown Burbank is an example of what kind of district?
Downtown Santa Monica and Downtown Glendale are a part of which area?
Warner Center is located in which area?
Century City is an example of a district that belongs to which city?
What business districts are within the downtown Los Angeles area?
What main business district is in downtown Los Angeles itself?
What additional business districts are in downtown Los Angeles itself?
The Sand Bernardino - Riverside area maintains what kind of district?
Other than San Bernardino, what is the name of the other city that maintains the districts including University Town?
Other than Downtown San Bernardino, and University Town, what is the name of another business district in the San Bernardino-Riverside area?
What business districts does the San Bernardino area maintain?
What business districts does the Riverside area maintain?
Which county is developing its business center?
Where are international corporations headquartered?
Jamboree Business Parks belongs to which business center?
What other business district does Orange County envelop outside of Downtown Santa Ana and Newport Center?
At what rate is Orange County developing its business centers?
What county does the rapidly developing downtown Santa Ana include?
What districts does downtown Santa Ana include?
What locations are headquartered at the California University at Irvine?
What includes Irvine Center Tech and Business Jamboree Parks?
What is the central business district of San Diego?
Other than its main central  business district, where are the majority of San Diego's business districts located?
Outside of Northern San Diego, which other region contains business districts?
University City is an example of a business district located in which city?
What is the central business district of downtown San Diego?
What are located in Northern downtown San Diego?
What business districts are located in Northern downtown San Diego?
What is the second busiest airport in the United States?
What is the metric they use to determine how busy airports are?
What ranking in terms of busiest airports from international passenger volume is the Los Angeles International Airport?
Which airport is home to the busiest single runway in the world?
What is the world's busiest general aviation airport?
What is the busiest airport by passenger volume in the United States?
What is the second-busiest single runway airport in the world?
What is the second-busiest general aviation airport?
What major commercial airports are located in Los Angeles?
What is the name of the commuter rail system?
How many lines does the commuter rail system have?
How many lines run out of Downtown Los Angeles?
A single line connects San Bernardino, Riverside and what other county?
Where do seven lines of Metrolink run out of?
What is the name of the Los Angeles rail system?
What counties are connected to Los Angeles, Ventura, and San Bernardino by one line?
What is the United States busiest commercial port?
What is the second busiest container port in the United States?
The Port of Long Beach belongs to which region of California?
What is home to Southern California?
What is the busiest container port in the United States?
What is the Port of San Diego adjacent to?
What is the United State's second-busiest commercial port?
What is the moniker that is being used to describe the region's diversified technology?
What kind of universities is the region famous for?
What kind of university is the California Institute of Technology?
How many campuses does the University of California have?
How many campuses does the California State University have?
What are the 5 California University campuses?
How many California University campuses are there?
How many State of California University campuses are there?
Where is Redland University located?
Where is Pomona University located?
The Los Angeles Rams are an example of what kind of sports team?
The Los Angeles Clippers are a team belonging to which sport?
The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim are from which sport?
What is the other NHL team aside from the Anaheim Ducks to reside in Southern California?
What is the lone MLS team that belongs to southern California?
What NLF teams are from Southern California?
What NAB teams are from Southern California?
What MBL teams are from Southern California?
What NLH teams are from Southern California?
What MSL team is from Southern California?
Which team was suspended from the MLS?
How many teams did Los Angeles used to have?
Which year resulted in the suspension of one of the two soccer teams?
What was the name of the stadium that the teams played in?
When is the suspended team scheduled to return?
How many Major Soccer League teams were in Los Angeles from 2005-2014?
What Major Soccer League teams played in Los Angeles in 2014?
When were the LA Galaxy suspended?
When is a second MSL team scheduled to return?
What other kind of sport is popular in southern California?
The Bruins belong to which college?
What is the name of the team from USC?
Which conference do the teams in southern California play in?
The two listed teams play for which NCAA group?
What is the ULCA mascot?
What is the UCS mascot?
What conference are both ULCA and UCS part of?
What is a growing sport in southern California?
At which level of education is this sport becoming more popular?
What is rugby rapidly becoming with high schools?
What sport is growing in all California schools?
What company was formed by the merger of Sky Television and British Satellite Broadcasting?
Who is the UK's largest digital subscription television company?
What year did BSkyB acquire Sky Italia?
What is the name of the holding company for BSkyB?
What is the name of the United Kingdom operation for BSkyB?
What company was angry about the merger of Sky Television and British Satellite Broadcasting?
Who is the UK's smallest digital subscription television company?
What year did BSkyB remove Sky Italia?
When did BSkyB become the largest US television company?
What company no longer trades as Sky?
What year was Setanta Sports awarded Primeier Leage rights to broadcast?
How many of the six total packages available to broadcasters was Setanta awarded?
Who purhcased the remaining 4 pacakages available to broadcasters?
How much did Sky bid to win the 4 broadcast pacakges they bought?
Which company had a short legal battle with the European Commission?
How many of the six total packages available to broadcasters did Setanta give away?
Sky lost how many packages?
How much did Sky bid to lose the 4 broadcast packages?
What channel was never dropped from Sky?
What consortium was BSkyB excluded from?
Who did BSkyB team up with because it was not part of the consortium?
How many BSkyB channels were available to customers prior to October 2005?
What channel replaced Sky Travel?
What was Sky Travel later rebranded as?
What consortium was BSkyB included with?
What was Pick TV later rebranded as?
What channel came before Sky Travel?
Who did BSkyB team up with because it was part of the consortium?
What channel was never rebranded?
What service did BSkyB chare additional subscription fees for?
When did Sky launch a TV advertising campaign target towards women?
WHat allows customers to get Sky+ functions if they do not subscribe to BSkyB's channels?
When did BSkyB discontinue the Sky+ Box?
What replaced the Sky+Box?
What service did BSkyB give away for free unconditionally?
When did Sky launch a TV advertising campaign target towards men?
What isn't required by customers to get Sky+ functions if they do not subscribe to BSkyB's channels?
When did BSkyB upgrade the Sky+ Box?
What replaced the Sky+HD Box?
What is the name of the TV scrambling system BSkyB uses?
Who is VideoGuard owned by?
Who is the parent company of NDS?
Who has design authority over all of the digital satellite receivers that are capable of using their service?
What is the name brand of the personal video recorder that BSkyB offers?
What is the name of the TV scrambling system BSkyB couldn't use?
Whose digital receivers are only built by one manufacturer?
What is available as stand-alone DVB CAMs?
What company was never involved with NDS?
What is the name brand of the video recorder that BSkyB never sold?
What year did BSkyB and Virgin Media have a dispute over the carriage of Sky Channels on cable TV?
What channels were removed from the network in March of 2007?
What did Virgin Media claim BSkyB did that resulted Virgin not carrying the channels anymore?
What additional srevice did BSkyB offer besides HD channels that they claimed offered "substantially more value"?
What additional srevice did BSkyB offer besides Video on Demand that they claimed offered "substantially more value"?
What year did BSkyB and Virgin Media have an agreement over the carriage of Sky Channels on cable TV?
What channels were always available on the network?
What additional service did BSkyB offer besides HD channels that they claimed offered no value?
What claim did BSkyB agree with?
When were basic channels first introduced by BSkyB?
when did the English High court find Microsoft's use of the term "SkyDrive" infringed on Sky's right?
What year did BSkyB and Microsoft announce their settlement?
What did Microsoft announce that it would rename Sky Drive to?
What did Microsoft announce that it would rename Sky Drive Pro to?
What kind of service is the SkyDrive Service?
When did the English High Court of Justice find that Microsoft’s use of the term "SkyDrive" did not infringe on Sky’s right to the "Sky" trademark?
When did Microsoft decide to appeal the ruling?
What did Microsoft announce that it would rename OneDrive to?
What did Microsoft announce that it would rename OneDrive for Business to?
When did Microsoft announce OneDrive will soon become SkyDrive?
Who was the chief executive officer when the service began?
Who's satellites would the new free-to-air channels be broadcast from?
When did BSkyB end their analogue service?
What platform caused BSkyB to end their analogue service?
How many households had BSkyB service in 1994?
What platform helped BSkyB to avoid ending their analogue service?
Whose satellites were never broadcast as free-to-air?
How many subscribers were lost within two months of launch from BSkyB?
Who commended the operations in front of the Select Committee on National Heritage?
Which company never expanded their platform?
Sky UK Limited is formerly known by what name?
What kind of company is Sky UK Limited?
How many customers does Sky UK Limited have as a pay-TV broadcaster as of 2015?
what other digital TV service took Sky UK Limited's most popular spot?
Sky UK Limited is now known by what name?
What has Sky UK Limited never been involved with?
How many customers did Sky UK Limited lose as a pay-TV broadcaster as of 2015?
What was the UK's least popular TV service in 2015?
Where did the headquarters relocate from?
What is the name of Sky Q's broadband router?
What are the Sky Q mini set top boxes able to connect to?
What does connecting different Sky Q boxes enable them to do?
When is Sky going to introduce UHD broadcasts?
When are the new Sky Q products going to be available?
What is the name of Sky Q's dial-up router?
What are the Sky Q mini set top boxes never able to connect to?
What does disconnecting different Sky Q boxes enable them to do?
What set top box can no longer display UHD broadcasts?
What are BSkyB's standard definition broadcasts compliant with?
Sky Movies and Sky Box office also include what optional soundtracks?
What is Sky+ HD material broadcast using?
What is the proprietary system that Sky+HD uses?
What does most of the HD material use as a standard?
What box is required to view MPEG-3?
What is the proprietary system that Sky+HD can't use?
What channel never used looping video streams?
What kind of soundtracks are mandatory with the Sky Movies and Sky Box Office channels?
When was Sky Digital launched?
What satellite was used when Sky digital was launched?
What satellite enabled Sky Digital to launch an all new digital service?
How many television and radio channels could the new digital service carry?
What is the position of the satellite that allowed sky to broadcast channels almost elclusively for the United Kingdom?
What service used Astra 2A in 1995?
What satellite made it impossible for Sky Digital to launch an all new digital service?
How many television and radio channels did the digital service get rid of?
When was the only satellite launched?
When did BSkyB launch it's HDTV service?
How many people were registered to receive the HD service prior to launch?
What was the name of the set top box manufacturer that BSkyB was having issues with?
What was the number of customers that the BBC  reported had yet to receive the service due to failed deliveries?
What was the total number of homes Sky announced that had Sky+HD in March of 2012?
When did BSkyB fail launching it's HDTV service?
Which manufacturer never had supply issues when dealing with BSkyB?
How many people never registered to receive the HD service prior to launch?
Who reported that 17,000 customers received the service due to failed deliveries?
When did Sky announce the total number of homes with Sky+HD was 3,222,000?
When did BSkyB announce it's intention to replace it's free-to-air digital channels?
When did Setanta Sports say it would launch as a subscription service?
What platform was Sentanta Sports planning on launching on?
What were NTL's services rebranded as?
What does BSkyB's sport portfolio include?
When did BSkyB announce it's intention to improve it's free-to-air digital channels?
When did Setanta Sports say it would launch as a free service on the digital terrestrial platform?
What platform was Sentanta Sports planning to avoid launching on?
What was Virgin Media rebranded as?
What channel lost advertising revenue due to their plans?
What are free-to-air encrypted broadcasts known as?
What do some encrypted broadcasts require to view?
What does a receiver have to be equipped with to view encrypted content?
What is the universal band that digital recievers will receive free to air channels on?
What service is a VideoGuard UK equipped receiver dedicated to decrypt?
What do encrypted broadcasts never require?
What does a receiver have to be equipped with to view unencrypted content?
What is the localized band that digital receivers will receive to air channels on?
What service is a VideoGuard UK equipped receiver never able to decrypt?
What band is fitted in the middle of the satellite dish?
When were the talks held for braodcast right to the Primier league for a five year period from the 1992 season?
Who were the current rights holders for the Primer League?
What did ITV increase their yearly offer for control of the rights to broadcast the Primer League to?
Who was given the highlights of most of the matches?
How much was BSkyB going to pay for the Primier League rights?
What company was not concerned about retaining new rights?
How much did BSkyB pay to give up their rights for Premier League?
 Who never saw highlights of most of the matches?
Who were never rights holders for the Premier League?
Who does BSkyB have an operating license from?
what is the fee range for accessing BSkyB's EPG?
Can BSkyB veto the presence of channels on their EPG?
Does BSkyB carry any control over a channels content?
Does BSkyB carry any control over the picture quality of a channel?
Who took away the operating license from BSkyB?
What company has veto over the presence of channels on their EPG?
What can BSkyB veto the presence of channels on?
What service doesn't require a fee to use?
When was BSkyB's digital service launched?
What was the name of BSkyB's digital service launched under?
What did BSkyB name their interactive service?
Who did BSkyB compete with initially?
Within the 30 days how many digiboxes had been sold?
When was BSkyB's digital service unofficially launched?
What company supported BSkyB the most?
Within 30 days how many digiboxes had been discarded?
When did BSkyB decide to stop giving away free digiboxes?
When was virgin media rebranded from NTL Telewest?
what was NTL Telewest re-branded to in 2007?
What did Virgin Media concentrate on instead of offering linear channels?
What was the one linear HD channel Virgin Media carried from November 2006 to July 2009?
what was the name of the other HD channel Virgin media could carry in the future?
When was NTL Telewest rebranded from Virgin Media?
What did Virgin Media ignore while offering linear channels?
What was the one linear SD channel Virgin Media carried from November 2006 to July 2009?
What channel never had an HD version?
How many homes had BSkyB's direct-to-home satellite service available to them in 2010?
How large was the audience BSkyB said they could reach?
When did BSkyB first announce their target goal?
What was the target percentage of households BSkyB wanted to reach?
What was happening to subscriber numbers in other areas of europe?
How many homes had BSkyB's direct-to-home satellite service unavailable to them in 2010?
How small was the audience BSkyB said they couldn't reach?
What was the percentage of households BSkyB never reached?
What free TV platform was most popular in Europe at this time?
What did Alec Shelbrooke propose payments of benefits to be made on?
What could the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program purchase?
what did the UK parliment hear that a subscription to BSkyB was?
What was the UK governments benefits agenchy checking in 2012?
What did the benefits agency think sports channels on a TV bill meant?
What did Alec Shelbrooke propose payments of benefits never be made on?
What could the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program never sell?
What did the UK parliment decide that a subscription to BSkyB was?
What did the benefits agency think sports channels on a TV bill ignored?
What was the UK governments benefits agency destroying in 2012?
What were the annual carriage fees for the channels?
Does the new deal include Video on demand and High Definition?
What company agreed to terminate high court proceedings with BSkyB?
What company agreed to terminate high court proceedings with Virgin Media?
What were high court proceedings being held about?
What were the weekly carriage fees for the channels?
What company did not agree to terminate high court proceedings with BSkyB?
What were local court proceedings being held about?
Which companies never agreed to terminate their court proceedings against each other?
Which company still offers Video On Demand and HD?
What kind of economy does Victoria have?
Where according to gross state product does Victoria rank in Australia?
At what rank does GPS per capita set Victoria?
What city in Victoria is called the sporting capital of Australia?
What is the largest stadium in Australia?
What kind of education does Victoria have?
Where according to net domestic product does Victoria rank in Australia?
At what rank is GPS service in Victoria?
What city in Victoria is called the cricket ground of Australia?
How many public universities are in Melbourne?
Where is the Asian influence strongest in Victoria?
Where were the Lambing Flat riots?
Where was the 1857 riot?
How many miners died in the typhoid outbreak of 1854?
What were the conditions for miners in the gold fields in Victoria?
Where is the Asian gold miners strongest in Victoria?
Where were the pro-Chinese riots?
Where was the 1857 gold rush?
How many miners died from racism violence in 1854?
What were the conditions for miners in Ireland and China?
What kind of representational system does the Victorian Legislative Council have?
How many electorates does the State of Victoria have?
How many representatives does each electorate have?
What is the term of office for each house member?
How often are elections held for the Victorian Parliament?
How many electorates does the Legislative Council have?
How many representatives does each state have?
How often are elections held by upper house members?
In what month does the Victorian Parliament register voters?
What political party is strongest in Melbourne's working class suburbs?
What party is strongest in Melbourne's affluent areas?
Which party is strongest in Victoria's northwestern and eastern regions?
What party rules in Melbourne's inner regions?
What party is favored in Bedigo and Geelong?
What political party is strongest in Melbourne's poor regional areas?
What party is strongest in Melbourne's financial district?
Which party is strongest in Victoria's lower house?
What party formed in 2014?
What party is favored in Northern and Southern Victoria?
What percentage of Victorians are Christian?
How many Victorians are Catholic?
What is Victoria's largest non-Christian religion?
How many Victorians are Buddhist?
How many Victorians are non-religious?
What percentage of Victorians are Christian Scientists?
How many Victorians are live near a moneatery?
What religion are most of the lower class in Victoria?
How many Victorians have a Buddha statue?
How many Victorians are Muslim?
Where in Australia is Victoria located?
How does Victoria rank as to population density?
How populous is Victoria compared to other Australian states?
What city is the capital of Victoria?
Compared to other Australian cities, what is the size of Melbourne?
Where in Bass Straight is Victoria located?
How does Melbourne rank as to population?
How populous is Melbourne compared to other Australian states?
What city is the capital of Australia?
Compared to other American cities, what is the size of Melbourne?
What is the term for the original Aboriginal people of Victoria?
When did Great Britain claim Australia? 
Where was Victoria first set to be located in Australia?
Where was the first settlement in Victoria?
When was Victoria first settled?
What is the term for the original Aboriginal people of Canberra?
When did Great Britain sell Australia?
Where were the Koori first set to be located in Australia?
Where was the first settlement in Canberra?
When was the first Parliament House built in Victoria?
How much Victorian farmland is farmed in grains?
What percentage of farmland grows wheat?
How much of Victoria's farmland grows hay?
How much does Victoria produce in Australian pears?
How many tonnes of tomatoes does Victoria produce?
How much Victorian farmland is farmed in rye grass?
What percentage of farmland grows beans?
How much of Victoria's farmland is sold domestically?
How much of Victoria produced Australian peaches?
How many tonnes of potatoes does Victoria produce?
When did Victoria enact its constitution?
On what is Victoria's constitution based ?
What group can amend the Victorian constitution?
What are the exceptions in the constitution  that require special considerations to amend?
What document formed the Parliament of Victoria?
When did Victoria approve a referendum?
On what is the Parliament of Victoria based?
What group can amend the United Kingdom Parliament?
What are the exceptions in the constitutions that fall under state responsibility?
What document formed the Parliament of "entrenched" provisions?
What is the weather type of Mallee and upper Wimmera?
What does the average temperatures exceed in the summer?
How cold does this region of Victoria get in the winner?
What is Victoria's highest monthly temperature?
When was the heatwave in which Hopetoun recorded its highest temperature?
What is the weather type of Hopetoun and Melbourne?
What is the median temperature in the winter?
What is the median temperature in the summer?
What is temperature does Hopetoun average in Feburary?
When was the heatwave in which Wimmera recorded its highest temperature?
What are public schools in Victoria?
What organization runs the public schools in Victoria? 
Since students do not pay tuition, what do they have to pay for schooling in Victoria?
What church runs some private schools in Victoria?
What government set standards do all schools have to meet?
What are public banks in Victoria?
What organization runs the waste management in Victoria?
What is covered by the state in addition to tuition?
What church runs public schools in Victoria?
What government set standards do only select schools have to meet?
What type of manufacturing plant is Victoria soon losing?
When has Toyota said it will close its Victoria plant?
When did Holden announce that it will close its Victoria plant?
When will Ford's manufacturing plants close?
What brand of car is manufactured in Broadmeadows?
What type of manufacturing plant is Victoria getting soon?
When has Toyota said it will change its Victoria plant into a plane factory?
When did Holden announce that it will open its Victoria plant?
When will Ford start building electric cars?
What brand of tractor is manufactured in Broadmeadows?
How high are Victoria's alpine regions?
What is the highest peak in Victoria?
How high is Victoria's Mount Bogong?
What type of topological systems are found in numbers in Victoria?
What is the Victoria state bird?
How high are Victoria's river regions?
What is the snowiest peak in Victoria?
How high is Victoria's Mount Gippsland? 
What is the Victoria state fish?
What is the Victoria state color?
Where is the coldest section of Victoria?
Of what mountain system are the Victorian Alps a part?
In what direction does the mountain system extend?
What is the temperature in the highest portion of the mountain range in winter?
What is the lowest recorded temperature in Victoria?
Where is the highest section of Victoria?
Of what mountain system are the Omeo Alps a part?
In what direction does the river system extend?
What is the temperature in the valley of the mountain range in winter?
What is the lowest recorded wind chill in Victoria?
Who owns the rail lines in Victoria?
Which rail line operates in Melbourne?
What entity owns V/Line?
What type of rail line is Pacific National?
What kind of rail system is Metro Trains Melbourne?
Who owns the rail cars in Victoria?
Which rail line operates Around the island?
What entity is sponsored by V/Line in the Olympics?
What operator transports cargo in Melbourne?
What operator is in mainland Australia?
How many seats does Victoria have in the Australian House of Representatives?
How many seats does Victoria have in the Senate?
What is the lower house of the Victorian parliament called?
What is the upper house of the Parliament of Victoria called?
Who is the current Governor of Victoria?
How many seats does Australia have in the House of Representatives?
How many seats does Australia have in the Senate?
What is the lower level of a the Australian House of Representatives called?
What is the upper level of the Australian House of Representatives called?
Who is the current President of Victoria?
On what date was Victoria declared independent from New South Wales?
When was gold found near Ballarat?
What did the finding of gold in Victoria cause?
How much did the population of Victoria increase in ten years after the discovery of gold?
How much gold did Victoria produce in the years of 1851-1860?
When were writs issued for the election of the New South Wales president?
When was gold found near Birmingham?
What did the new railroad in Victoria trigger?
How much did the population New South Wales increase in ten years after the discovery of gold?
How much gold did Victoria produce in 1860?
By August 2010 how many public schools did Victoria have?
How many Catholic schools were in Victoria?
How many students were enrolled in public schools in Victoria?
How many full time teachers does Victoria have?
What percentage of private school students go to Catholic schools?
By August 2010 how many trade schools did Victoria have?
How many Catholic schools got government assistance?
How many students were enrolled in public schools outside Victoria?
How many full time janitors does Victoria have?
What percentage of private school students go to Lutheran schools?
What state in Australia is the center of dairy farming?
How many dairy cows are there in Australia?
What percentage of Australia's dairy cattle are found in Victoria?
How much of Australia's milk is produced in Victoria?
To where is most of the abalone and lobster caught in Victorian waters shipped?
What state in Australia invented dairy farming?
How many spotted dairy cows are there in Australia?
What percentage of Australia's dairy farms are found in Victoria?
What percentage of Australia's veal is comes from Victoria?
To where is most of the milk and beef from Victoria exported to?
What is the gauge of the Victorian rail lines?
To what gauge have some lines been changed in the west of Victoria?
What gauge of rail lines do two tourist lines use?
Where were the narrow gauge rail lines built in Victoria?
How many narrow gauge rail lines were previously government owned?
What is the gauge of the Victorian power lines?
To what gauge have some lines been changed north of Victoria?
What gauge of rail lines are used in small fright operators?
Where were the narrow gauge rail lines demolished in Victoria?
How many narrow gauge rail lines were built before 1900?
When was the colony of New South Wales founded?
What was the name of the eastern half of the colony of 1788?
What name was given to the western half of the colony?
Where was the location of the colonial government that administered the new colony?
When did Captain Daniel Woodriff visit New South Wales?
What name was given to the western half of Wales?
Where was the location of the administration of Calcutta?
Who feared that Holland might establish their own settlement?
When was there a armed protest at Ballarat about mining taxes?
What was the incident over taxes at Ballarat called?
What armed group stopped the uprising at Ballarat?
What did colonial authorities  reduce because of the Ballarat revolt?
The passage of what act gave Victoria its own government?
When was there a armed protest at Eureka Stockade about mining taxes?
What armed group stopped the colonial authorities at Ballarat?
What did colonial authorities reduce because of the Colony of Victoria Act of 1855?
What did some leaders of the British rebellion become?
Who protested against Parliament taxes?
What does the Premier of Victoria need to lead in the Legislative Assembly? 
Who sets the legislative agenda in Victoria?
Who can be in the Victorian cabinet?
Who is the current Premier of Victoria?
How are Victorian cabinet members chosen?
What does the secretary need to lead in the Legislative Assembly?
Who sets the judicial agenda in Victoria?
Who can be in the Victorian law enforcement?
Who is the first Premier of Victoria?
How are Victorian education members chosen?
How much did the gross agricultural product increase from 2003-04?
What percentage was the increase of agricultural products in 2003-04?
How many farms are there in Victoria?
How much land do farms use in Victoria?
How much percentage of Victoria's land is taken up by farms?
How much did the gross agricultural product increase since 2004?
What percentage was the increase of agricultural products since 2004?
How many farms are there west of Melbourne?
How much land do farms crop rotate each year in Victoria?
How much percentage of Victoria's land is taken up by consumable crops?
What part do events in Victoria's economy  play? 
Besides cultural events, what other tourist attraction does Victoria have?
On where are most tourist attractions focused in Victoria?
Where do other tourist events happen in Victoria outside of Melbourne?
What event is held at Bells Beach in Victoria?
What part does fishing play in Victoria's economy play?
Besides cultural events, what other television programs does Victoria have?
Where is the best Italian in Victoria?
Where do other religious experiences happen in Victoria outside of Melbourne?
What event is held at Port Sunshine in Victoria?
Where was France's Huguenot population largely centered?
What was the proportion of Huguenots to Catholics at their peak?
When were the Wars of Religion fought?
What treaty ended the Wars of Religion?
What did this agreement do?
When did the Huguenot movement start?
Where were French Catholics concentrated in France?
Who initially started the Wars of Religion?
How many Huguenots were there in 1598?
How many French Catholics were there in 1598?
The term Huguenot was originally meant to confer?
The term may be related to what politician from Switzerland?
What Swiss city was the center of the Calvinist movement?
What name was given to the plot to usurp power from the French House of Guise?
When did this attempt take place?
In what year was Swiss politician Besancon Hugues born?
What does Huisgenoten translate to in French?
Which city was John Calvin born in?
What religion was John Calvin?
In what year did the House of Guise gain influence?
What helped spread Protestantism in France?
When did the first French language bible appear?
Who translated this version of the scriptures?
An illustrated, paraphrased version of this appeared when?
Jean De Rely's illustrated French-language scriptures were first published in what city?
In what year did the Protestant Reformation arrive in France?
In what country did the Protestant Reformation get its start?
In what year did the Reformed church of France get established?
Where was the Roman Catholic Priest Guyard de Moulin from?
Where was Jean de Rely from?
What were the towns granted to the Huguenots in 1598 collectively called?
What was the most important of these cities or towns?
France laid siege to Montpellier in what year?
What proclamation officially ended limited Huguenot autonomy?
When was this proclamation issued?
What was the result in Montpellier of the Edict of Ales in 1629?
What does "villes de surete" translate to in English?
How many miles is Montpellier from Paris?
In what year did Protestant rule in Montpellier effectively collapse?
In what year was a royal citadel built by Catholics in Montpellier?
Where did the first Huguenot colonists settle?
What modern city is located on the original Huguenot colony?
Who was the first Huguenot to arrive at the Cape of Good Hope?
What trading company helped settle Huguenots near the Cape?
The number of new Huguenot colonists declined after what year?
In what year was Francois Villion born?
What was Maria de la Quellerie's fathers name?
How many ships with Hugeunot's aboard had sailed to Cape of Good Hope in 1671?
What city was Jan van Riebeeck from?
What did Jan van Riebeeck's father do for a living?
When did Huguenots colonize in North America?
Who led the North American Huguenot colonial expedition?
What was the name of the first Huguenot church in the New World?
By what name is that first Huguenot church known today?
The Huguenots were the first Europeans to live in what modern New York borough?
In what part of the now US was New France?
In what year did the Boschwick neighborhood officially change its name to Bushwick?
Where did Jesse de Forest sale from to arrive in North America?
Besides Nova Scotia what was another British colony in North America?
In what year did New Netherland split into New York and New Jersey?
What southern city did the Huguenots settle near?
Where in South Carolina did Huguenot nobility settle?
When did the Huguenots secure the right to own land in the Baronies?
From whom did the Huguenots in South Carolina purchase land from?
Charleston settler Elie Prioleau was from what French town?
What French city was Alexander Pepin originally from?
What English city was Edmund Bellinger from?
In what year did Rev. Elie Prioleau become the pastor of the first Huguenot church in Charleston, South Carolina?
In what year did Edmund Bohun of the Humphrey de Bohun line of French royalty move to North America?
In what year was Charleston, North Carolina founded?
Who was Louis XIV's main rival?
William would eventually gain what throne?
What coalition rose up to oppose Louis XIV's France?
With what European country did the Huguenots feel kinship for emigration to?
When did France and the Dutch fight in the 17th century?
In what year did William III become King of England?
What language did William III primarily speak?
What did most people in the League of Augsburg speak as their first language?
In what year did King Louis XIV of France take the throne?
What proclamation abolished protestantism in France?
When was this edict declared?
Which French kind issued this declaration?
How many Huguenots fled France by the 1700s?
In what decade did Louis XIV start his reign?
How many Huguenots were there in France in 1685?
Who had issued the Edict of Nantes?
How many Huguenots were in France in the early 18th century?
What group specifically opposed the Huguenots?
What event was the worst example of Huguenot persecution?
How many Huguenots were killed during this purge?
How did the Huguenots defend themselves?
What was a non-religious reason for the massacre?
How many French Catholics died during the Bartholomew's Day massacre?
How many French nobles were Huguenots?
How many French Catholics died after the Huguenots retaliated?
How many Huguenots were there in Northern France during this time?
What were the civil wars caused by the Huguenots called?
Where did these uprisings take place?
When did these rebellions take place?
What King and former Huguenot looked out for the welfare of the group?
Which successor to Henry resumed persecution of the Huguenots?
When was the second Huguenot rebellion?
In what year was Louis XIII crowned?
What nationality was Louis XIII originally?
What was one of the nationalities that the Huguenots established diplomatic contacts with?
What religion were most Italians during the 1620s?
How many protestants live in France today?
What percentage of France's population is protestant today?
What northern province in France has a large protestant population?
What is the southern region where protestants are concentrated?
What country currently has a group who call themselves Huguenots?
How many regard themselves as Huguenots today outside of France?
How many people live in the Alsace region of France?
Where are there the fewest Protestants in France?
What percentage of people in Australia regard themselves as Huguenots?
 How many Protestants are there in the Cevennes mountain region?
What city north of New York was settled by Huguenots?
What town in upstate New York was settled by Huguenots?
What Huguenot area is designated as a historical landmark?
What is located within this district?
In what borough is there a neighborhood called Huguenot?
How far is New Paltz from New York?
How far is New Rochelle from New Paltz?
How long is the south shore of Staten Island?
Where did most of the Huguenots decide to live?
Where did the fewest Huguenots stay?
What country initially received the largest number of Huguenot refugees?
How many refugees emigrated to the Dutch Republic?
What was the population of the Dutch Republic before this emigration?
What two areas in the Republic were first to grant rights to the Huguenots?
What declaration predicated the emigration of Huguenot refugees?
How many Huguenots lived in West Frisia in 1705?
How many Huguenots lived in Amsterdam in 1705?
In what year was the Edict of Nantes revoked?
How many clergymen were there in the Dutch Republic before the influx of Huguenots?
In what country is the Cevennes?
Where was the Gate of King Hugo?
By what other name was the Gate known?
Who allegedly haunted the gate?
By what name were the "supposedly reformed" known?
What time of day did these reformed supposedly gather to engage in Huguenot rituals?
In what year was Huguon built?
In what year did King Hugo die?
In what year did le roi Huguet die?
In what year was Reguier de la Plancha born?
In what year was The Cape Monthly first published?
Where did Huguenots and Walloons settle in England?
What house was the site of a weaving school in Canterbury?
What social construct did Huguenot refugees in Canterbury practice?
What other English towns were sites of Huguenot settlement?
What is located on the site of The Weaving House currently?
When was the The Weavers converted into a restaurant?
In which English town did the most Huguenots live?
In which English town did the most Walloons live?
What was one occupation of the native English?
Which English town had the largest refugee church?
What Irish cities had Huguenot mayors in the 1600s and 1700s?
French Church Street is in what Irish town?
Where is D'Olier Street?
D'Olier Street is named after whom?
The French church in Portarlington was built when?
In what Irish city can few signs remain to be seen of the Huguenots?
In what year was D'Olier Street built in Dublin?
In what year was French Church Street built in Cork?
The Huguenot District was named in Cork in what year?
What was D'olier's first name?
What is the common term for the loss of key members of French society to Huguenot emigration?
What was the name of France's primary colony in the New World?
What persons were not allowed to settle in New France?
The French and Indian War was the New World aspect of what European conflict?
When did the British defeat New France?
In what year did the French and Indian War begin?
What people weren't allowed to settle in British colonies?
In what year did the first Huguenots arrive in the British colonies?
Who won the Seven Years' War?
What was Henry IV known as before taking the throne?
When did Henry issue the Edict of Nantes?
What did the Edict do for Huguenots in France?
The edict protected Catholics by discouraging what?
What religion did Henry renounce upon ascending the throne?
In what year was Henry of Navarre born?
In what year was Henry of Navarre made Henry IV?
In what year did the warfare in France between Protestants and Catholics get it start?
What did the Edict of Nantes encourage in Catholic-controlled areas of France?
What was required of Huguenot children after the Edict was revoked?
How did the revocation restrict Huguenot travel?
How many Huguenots emigrated to North America as colonists?
What were Huguenots who stayed in France eventually known as?
Besides Britain and North America, where else did Huguenot refugees settle?
How many French people fled to Prussia?
Besides England who else were particularly welcoming to those fleeing France?
What country was very well known for offering a Protestant education?
How many of those fleeing France went on to become doctors?
How many Huguenots chose to stay in France?
What were the first two destinations of Huguenot emigres?
When was the French colony in modern day Brazil founded?
What was the Brazilian French colony called?
In what year was Fort Coligny destroyed?
By what document did the Huguenots confess their faith to the Portuguese in Brazil?
How many Huguenots were part of the group that founded France Antarctique in 1555?
In what year was Fort Coligny built?
How many were in the first wave of Huguenot's fleeing to Switzerland?
How many Huguenot's did the Portuguese kill for being Protestant in Guanabara?
Families with French names in South Africa speak what language today?
What South African industry descended from Huguenot settlers?
Where can one find the formerly Huguenot farms in South Africa?
What characteristic identifies the French ancestry of some South Africans?
What prominent South African family had a vineyard in France?
What South African family had the largest vineyard in France?
What prominent South African family distilled brandy and were Huguenots?
What Huguenot French family had the largest brandy distilling business in South Africa?
What Revolutionary War midnight rider was a Huguenot descendant?
What signer of the Articles of Confederation was descended from Huguenots?
In what city is the last Huguenot congregation in the US?
What church in Virginia is maintained by Huguenots as a historic shrine?
In what state is the largest Huguenot Society located?
In what year was the Articles of Confederation for South Carolina signed?
In what year was the Huguenot Society for America founded?
What is the Huguenot church in Charleston, South Carolina named?
Who owned the Cuckoo Tavern?
In what state was the Cuckoo Tavern?
What industry was centered in Bedfordshire?
What style of lace is erroneously believed by some to have Huguenot influence?
What reference is there to Huguenot lacemakers in the 19th century?
When did Mechlin lace develop?
How many immigrant lacemakers were there in Bedfordshire?
In what era was "Bucks Point" lace making developed?
How many Huguenots settled in Bedfordshire?
What was Dover the main British center of at the time?
What were the two Huguenot neighborhoods created in Berlin?
What portion of Berlin's population spoke French by 1700?
Why did Berlin Huguenots switch to German from French in their services?
What years did this occupation take place?
What other Northern European cities had Huguenot congregations?
In what year did Napoleon come to power in France?
What neighborhood did Huguenots establish in Stockholm?
What neighborhood did Huguenots create in Hamburg?
When did Huguenots first arrive in Helsinki?
How much of Helsinki's population spoke French as of 1700?
Which central European country had a Calvinist ruler?
After Huguenots fled France, their last remaining bastion was where?
What did the 18th century Huguenot group call themselves?
Against whom did the Camisards rise up to fight?
French troops put down the Camisard uprisings between what years?
In what year did Frederick William of Prussia become the Great Elector?
How many Huguenots fled to England?
How many people did Prussia lose due to war?
When did the fighting stop in Prussia?
In what year did the Camisards organize as a regional group in southern France?
There was a 16th century Huguenot settlement near what modern day Florida city?
Who was the leader who established the colony at Florida?
What was the name of the Florida Huguenot colony?
Which army attacked and destroyed this colony?
When was the colony destroyed?
In what year was Jean Ribault born?
How many Huguenots did Pedro Menendez have murdered  at  St Augustine?
How many Huguenots were there in Fort Caroline?
From where had the Norman Huguenots sailed in order to arrive at Fort Caroline?
What was the name of the first Huguenot outpost in South Carolina?
What present-day area was this settlement near?
Which Spanish officer established the settlement at St. Augustine?
When did Ribault first establish a settlement in South Carolina?
What European event caused the Huguenots to abandon Charlesfort?
In what year did the Wars of Religion start?
In what year was Rene Goulaine de Laudonniere born?
In what year was Pedro Menendez de Aviles born?
In what year did Rene Goulaine de Laudonniere leave his position as a lieutenant for Jean Ribault?
In what year did the French Huguenots abandon their first North American outpost?
In what English colony were Huguenot settlers promised land?
In what area of this British colony were Huguenot land grants?
What town was actually granted to the Huguenots on arrival?
How many settlers original settled in Manakintown?
When were these settlers naturalized as English colonists?
How many French Huguenots eventually moved to Missouri from Manakin Town?
How many French Huguenots in Manakin Town ended up moving to Kentucky?
How many French Huguenot residents of Manakin Town actually live outside the town on farms?
In what century was the Huguenot Memorial Bridge built?
In what year had Manakin Town first been abandoned?
When was the Dutch Revolt?
Who did the Dutch fight in the Dutch Revolt?
What Dutch document condemned the Spanish Inquisition?
What leader led the Dutch Revolt and wrote Apologie?
What was the Dutch leader's religious affiliation?
In what year did William the Silent issue his "Apologie"?
What nationality was Pierre L'Oyseleur?
In what colony was the town of Delft?
In what year did Huguenots begin to settle in South Africa?
Who was William the Silent's father?
What English law made that country more welcoming to Huguenots?
When was this naturalization act passed?
About how many Walloons and Huguenots emigrated to England and Ireland in this era?
Who was the famous Huguenot theologian and writer in London?
What Catholic Church liturgical belief did Lortie criticize openly?
How many Huguenots fled to England after the Foreign Protestants Naturalization Act was passed?
How many Protestant Walloons fled to England before the Foreign Protestants Naturalization Act was passed?
Where was Andrew Lortie originally from?
In what year was Andrew Lortie born?
How many Protestant Walloons and Huguenots continued on through England and ended up in Ireland?
What war in Ireland featured Huguenot regiments?
Under which leader did the Huguenots fight in this conflict?
Which Irish cities had large Huguenot enclaves?
Huguenots in Killeshandra and County Cavan expanded what agricultural industry?
What textile industry did the Huguenots contribute to in Ireland?
In what era was the Williamite war in Ireland?
Where was the biggest settlement of Huguenots in Ireland?
Where was the smallest settlement of Huguenots in Ireland among major cities?
What did the Huguenots who settled in Dublin contribute?
What did the Huguenots who settled in Cork contribute?
Which noble helped establish the Huguenot settlement in Saarland?
Which Count did the Prince strike an arrangement with?
What industry did the nobleman establish with this settlement?
In what era did some members of this community emigrate to the US?
In what year was the agreement to allow the Saarland settlement reached?
In what year was Prince Louis de Conde born?
In what year was Ludwig von Nassau-Saarbrucken made a Count?
Who was Count Ludwig von Nassau-Saarbucken's father?
In what year did Huguenots first move to present-day Saarland?
What two member nations of the Holy Roman Empire received Huguenot refugees?
What general religious belief did the nations that received Huguenot refugees have in common?
What area in South Africa accepted Huguenot colonists?
What area in modern-day Canada received Huguenot immigrants?
What made emigration to these colonies attractive?
What nation did the most Huguenots flee to from France?
To what nation did the fewest Huguenots flee to from France?
What religion predominated in the Holy Roman Empire?
What was the biggest religion in Sweden?
What was the biggest religion in Quebec?
From what French King did the Huguenot name possibly descend?
What is the theory that this King's name is the origin of "Huguenot" called?
Who is one prominent advocate of this theory?
According to the theory, what does the name "Huguenot" mean?
Other theories of the word's origin can be generally classed as what?
Who was the first king of France to reign during the Reformation?
What religion was Hugues Capet?
What religion was Janet Gray?
Who was Janet Gray married to?
Who was one French pro-reform Roman Catholic of the 15th century? 
Where did this pro-reform leader teach?
When did this leader publish a French language Bible?
What leader of the Swiss reformation was a student of Lefevre?
What other European Protestant leader was educated at the University of Paris?
In what nation did the Gallicans get their start?
What French city was Jacques Lefevre from?
In what year did John Calvin graduate from the University of Paris?
In what year did John Calvin become a Protestant?
Who was one of the most prominent French Waldensians?
When was the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre?
What group killed thousands of Huguenots?
How many Huguenots were killed in Toulouse?
When was amnesty granted to those responsible for the massacre?
Reports document that how many Parisien Protestants were killed by September 17?
How many Huguenots were killed in Bordeaux?
In which French city was about 2,000 Huguenots killed?
How many Huguenots were killed altogether in France?
How many Huguenots were slaughtered in Orleans?
How many Huguenots were slain in Toulouse?
Who became king in 1643?
How did the new king react to the Huguenots?
What was the king's first approach to the Huguenots?
What did the king do to regarding Huguenot education?
The practice of occupying and looting Huguenot homes was called?
In what year did Louis XIV die?
In what year did Louis XIV start to bribe Protestants to convert to Catholicism?
In what year did Louis XIV start to deny Protestants the ability to work in certain professions?
In what year was the Edict of Nantes issued?
In what year were the Dragonnades started?
What present day county is New Rochelle in?
Where did the Huguenots land in New York originally?
From whom did the Huguenots purchase the land where they settled?
What French City was New Rochelle named after?
What is the name of the third, permanent Huguenot church in New Rochelle?
Who named "Bauffet's Point" at Davenports Neck?
How much land did the Lord of Pelham Manor, John Pell. own in total in North America?
Whose decision was it to name the new town New Rochelle?
How far is it from Davenports Neck to New Rochelle?
What was the name of the first wooden church built in New Rochelle?
How did Huguenots evolve their religious beliefs in the New World?
How were Huguenot settlers assimilated into North American society at large?
Who was one prominent Huguenot-descended arms manufacturer?
For how long did Huguenots continue to use French names?
What was the name of du Pont's gunpowder operation?
In what century was Eleutherian gunpowder mills founded?
What were Protestant's contributions to the United State economic life?
What nationality was Lavoisier?
How did Huguenots hold onto some of their religious beliefs over the years?
Who was a prominent Huguenot in Holland?
Where did he begin teaching?
What books did Bayle publish?
These books became a foundational text for what library?
Who is the patron saint of the Huguenots?
How many months did it take Pierre Bayle to write his multi-volume series Historical and Critical Dictionary?
How many French family names are commonly used in the Netherlands?
Is Saint Nicolas or Sint Nicolaas celebrated earlier in the year in the Netherlands?
How many volumes is Historical and Critical Dictionary?
What early Huguenot Church was established in England?
When was the charter for this church signed?
What is the present-day location of this church?
What London neighborhood attracted Huguenot refugees?
When was the Old Truman Brewery founded?
In what year did Huguenot refugees first start to move to London?
In what year did the Black Eagle Brewery change its name to Old Truman Brewery?
What Huguenot church was established in Norwich?
How much of London's populace became immigrants?
In what year did Huguenot refugees first settle in Norwich?
What protestant religions made Northern European counties safe for Huguenot immigration?
Which areas of Northern Europe practiced those religions?
What proclamation gave Huguenots special privileges in Brandenburg?
What dual titles did Frederick William hold?
What military impact did Huguenot immigration have on Frederick's army?
In what year was the AltpreuBissche Infantry Regiment No. 13 established?
In what year was Frederick William named as the Elector of Brandenburg?
How many Huguenot settled in the Baden territory of Germany?
How many Huguenot settled in the Lower Saxony territory of Germany?
How many men were in the AltpreusBische Infantry No. 15?
What German ruler invited Huguenot immigration?
What German poet was descended from Huguenots?
What German general and fighter pilot was of Huguenot ancestry?
Who was the final Prime Minister of East Germany?
Thomas de Maiziere serves what role in the German cabinet?
Who is one of Frederick Williams' descendants?
Who is a descendant of General Hermann von Francois?
Which side won the First World War Battle of Tannenberg?
What ethnicity was Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg?
Who was one of Lothar de Maiziere's predecessors?
Along with geothermal and nuclear, what is a notable non-combustion heat source?
What ideal thermodynamic cycle analyzes the process by which steam engines work?
In the Rankine cycle, what does water turn into when heated?
At what pressure is water heated in the Rankine cycle?
What types of engines are steam engines?
Along with geothermal and nuclear, what is a notable combustion heat source?
What ideal thermodynamic cycle analyzes the process by which solar engines work?
In the Rankine cycle, what does nuclear power turn into when heated?
At what pressure is nuclear power heated in the Rankine cycle?
What types of engines are solar engines?
What was the first true engine that was commercially successful?
Who was the inventor of the atmospheric engine?
About what year was the atmospheric engine invented?
What was invented by Savery?
Who conceptualized the piston?
What was the first true vacuum that was commercially successful?
Who was the inventor of the vacuum?
About what year was the vacuum engine developed?
What was invented in a storage reservoir?
Who conceptualized the vacuum?
In what country was a full-scale working railway steam locomotive first invented?
On what date did the first railway trip in the world occur?
Where did the world's first railway journey terminate?
In what constituent country of the United Kingdom is Merthyr Tydfil located?
In what geographical portion of Wales is Abercynon located?
In what country was a full-scale working railway steam centre first invented?
On what date did the first railway trip in England occur?
Where did the England's first railway journey terminate?
In what constituent country of the United Kingdom is Trevithick located? 
In what geographical portion of England is Abercynon located?
What device is used to recycle the boiler water in most steam engines?
What types of pumps are typically used in industrial boilers?
In what decade were injectors widely used in steam engines?
What is a notable application of injectors today?
What are injectors used to supply?
What device is used to recycle the boiler water in most jet engines?
What types of pumps are typically used in jet engines?
In what decade were injectors widely used in jet engines?
What is a notable application of jet engines today?
What are jet engines used to supply?
How many expansion stages are used by the triple expansion engine?
What are engines using four expansion stages known as?
In what century was the Yarrow-Schlick-Tweedy balancing system used?
What sort of engines utilized the Yarrow-Schlick-Tweedy balancing system?
What class of ships is an example of large passenger liners?
How many expansion stages are used by the crankshaft engine?
What are engines using four expansion cylinders known as?
In what century was the Olympic balancing system used?
What sort of engines utilized the Olympic balancing system?
What class of ships is an example of small passenger liners?
Along with poppet valve gears, what type of gears utilized separate admission and exhaust valves to give ideal events?
Along with Stephenson and Walschaerts, what is an example of a simple motion?
How is lap provided by overlapping the admission side port?
What type of gears, along with poppet valve gears, utilized separate admission and leakage cutoffs to give ideal events? 
What is an example of complicated exhaust, along with Stephenson and Walschaerts?
How is lap provided by overlapping the stationary marketplace port?
When were attempts made to overcome stationary marketplaces?
What are sometimes present in the boiler's firebox crown?
What happens to the lead fusible plugs if the water level of the boiler drops?
What happens after the lead melts?
After the operators are warned by the escape of the steam, what may they then do?
What is the escape of the steam unlikely to accomplish in all but the smallest boilers?
What are sometimes present in the plug's firebox crown?
What happens to the lead fusible plugs if the water level of the fire drops?
What happens after the firebox melts?
After the operators are warned by the escape of the firebox, what may they then do?
What is the escape of the firebox unlikely to accomplish in all but the smallest boilers?
Who patented a steam engine in 1781?
What sort of motion did Watt's steam engine continuously produce?
How many horsepower was Watt's engine?
As of what year were 10000 horsepower engines available?
What was the steam engine an important component of?
Who patented a steam engine in 1883?
What sort of motion did Newcomen's steam engine continuously produce?
How many horsepower was Newcomen's engine?
As of what year were 1700 horsepower engines available?
What was the high pressure engine an important component of?
In what century did the history of the steam engine begin?
Who conceptualized the aeolipile?
What was Hero of Alexandria's nationality?
Who described a steam turbine in 1629?
In what year did Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont patent a water pump for draining mines?
In what century did the history of the steam digester begin?
Who conceptualized the piston?
What was Hero of Ayanz's nationality?
Who described a steam turbine in 1690?
In what year did Jeronimo de Ayanz y Beaumont patent a water pump for draining patients?
What type of engines became widespread around the end of the 19th century?
What are the stages in a compound engine called?
In what field were double and triple expansion engines common?
What product was notably shipped in vessels equipped with double and triple expansion engines?
Along with electric motors, what power sources overtook steam engines in the 20th century?
What type of engines became widespread around the end of the 20th century?
What are the stages in an efficiency engine called?
In what field were double and triple expansion replacements common?
What product was notably shipped in vessels equipped with double and triple replacement engines?
Along with electric motors, what power sources overtook expansion engines in the 20th century?
The use of what device represented the last major evolution of the steam engine?
In what part of the 19th century were steam turbines introduced?
Above what horsepower are steam turbines usually more efficient than steam engines that use reciprocating pistons?
What percentage of electrical power in the United States is made by steam turbines?
Most power of what sort is generated by steam turbines today?
What device's use represented the last major evolution of the generator?
In what part of the 19th century where generators introduced? 
Above what horsepower are steam turbines usually more efficient than generators that use reciprocating pistons?
What percentage of electrical power in the United States is made by generators?
What sort of power is generated by heat sources today?
What is the usual source of heat for boiling water in the steam engine?
Aside from firebox, what is another name for the space in which combustible material is burned in the engine?
Along with nuclear, geothermal and internal combustion engine waste heat, what sort of energy might supply the heat for a steam engine?
What type of heating element is often used in toy steam engines?
What is the usual source of heat for boiling water in the industrial process?
What, aside from firebox, is another name for the space in which combustible material is burned in the electric heating element?
What type of heating element is often used in toy chamber engines?
What sort of energy, along with nuclear, geothermal, and internal combustion waste heat, might supply the heat for a firebox?
What type of heating element is often used in closed space engines?
What instrument is used to examine steam engine performance?
What year saw the earliest recorded use of the steam engine indicator?
What company developed the most successful steam engine indicator?
Who developed a successful steam engine indicator for Charles Porter?
Where was the Charles Porter steam engine indicator shown?
What instrument is used to examine diagram performance?
What year saw the earliest recorded use of steam engines?
What company developed the most successful steam engine?
Who developed a successful steam engine for Charles Porter?
Where was the Charles Porter steam engine shown?
At what degree are the pistons of a two-cylinder compound connected to the cranks?
In a 4-cylinder compound engine, what degree were the individual pistons balanced at?
At what angle were the groups of pistons set in relation to one another in a 4-cylinder compound?
At what degree are the pistons of a two-cylinder compound connected to the pistons?
In a 4-cylinder compound engine, what degree were the individual cranks balanced at
At what angle were the groups of pistons set in relation to one another in a 4-cylinder crank?
What happens when the double expansion crank is duplicated?
What happens to railways in the first type of Vauclain compound?
What is a term for the reversing of steam flow in a piston engine after each stroke?
How many piston strokes occur in an engine cycle?
How many crank rotations are there in an engine cycle?
How many events occur in an engine cycle?
Along with admission, exhaust and compression, what is an event in the engine cycle?
What is a term for the reversing of steam flow in a compression engine after each stroke?
How many piston strokes occur in an exhaust cycle?
How many crank rotations are there in a cylinder cycle?
How many events occur in a steam cycle?
What, along with admission, exhaust, and compression, is an event in the steam cycle?
What is the name of a uniflow engine that takes in steam in hot areas and exhausts it in cold?
The uniflow engine is an attempt to fix an issue that arises in what cycle?
What part is added to the uniflow engine to resolve the issue in the counterflow cycle?
What is the name of a uniflow engine that takes in steam in hot areas and exhausts it in passing?
What cycle has an issue for which an expansion gradient attempts to fix?
What part is added to the expansion gradient to resolve the issue in the counterflow cycle?
What attempt to remedy the difficulties arising from gradient performance?
What is the aim of the additional stroke?
What type of steam engine doesn't need valves to direct steam?
What is another term for the pivot mounting?
Along with toys, where are oscillating cylinder steam engines typically used?
Full size working engines on what vehicles sometimes use oscillating cylinder steam engines?
What type of steam engine doesn't need valves to direct engines?
What is another term for the port face?
Where, along with toys, are oscillating cylinder port faces typically used?
On what vehicles do full size working engines sometimes use oscillating cylinder rocks?
What is a variant of the simple expansion pivot mounting?
What happens to the working fluid in a closed loop system?
What sort of system releases the exhaust steam into the atmosphere?
What working fluid is used in a mercury vapor turbine?
What is the typical working fluid in a steam engine?
What happens to the working fluid in a chemistry system?
What sort of system releases the exhaust steam into the boiler?
What working fluid is used in a mercury cycle?
What is the typical working fluid in a vapor turbine?
What can the working fluid in a boiler cycle operate as?
What limits the Rankine cycle's efficiency?
What is the turbine entry temperature of a steam turbine, in degrees Celsius?
What is  565 °C the creep limit of?
What is the approximate condenser temperature in a turbine?
What is a turbine's theoretical Carnot efficiency?
What limits the Rankine cycle's temperatures?
What is the turbine entry temperature of a Rankine turbine, in degrees Celsius?
What is 63 degrees celsius the creep limit of?
What is the approximate condenser temperature in stainless steel?
What is stainless steel's theoretical Carnot efficiency?
What devices have been credited as the moving force of the Industrial Revolution?
Along with road vehicles, locomotives and ships, on what vehicles were steam engines used during the Industrial Revolution?
What is an example of a steam-powered automobile?
Along with mills and mines, in what industrial locations did steam drive machines?
What did the use of steam engines in farming lead to?
What devices have been credited as the moving force of cultivation?
Along with road vehicles, locomotives and ships, on what vehicles were steam engines used during cultivation?
What is an example of a road vehicle?
Along with mills and mines, in what industrial locations did steam drive cultivation?
What did the use of motorcycles in farming lead to?
What was the name of the locomotive that debuted in 1808?
Who designed Salamanca?
What type of locomotive was Salamanca?
On what railroad was Salamanca used?
For what railroad did Stephenson build a locomotive in 1825?
What was the name of the locomotive that debuted in 1825?
Who designed Salamanca?
What type of locomotive was Darlington?
On what railroad was Darlington used?
For what railroad did Murray build a locomotive in 1825?
Who patented a high-pressure compound engine in 1805?
What nationality was Arthur Woolf?
What is decreased by staging expansion across multiple cylinders?
What needs to be larger to get the same work out of lower pressure steam?
Who patented a high-pressure compound engine in 1804?
What nationality was Arthur Smith?
What is decreased by staging expansion across one cylinder?
What needs to be larger to get the same work out of lower pressure cooling?
Who patented the Woolf cooling cylinder?
What percentage of electricity was made by steam turbine in the 1990s?
What marine engines were less efficient than steam turbines?
Along with diesel engines, what engines have overtaken steam engines for marine propulsion?
What engines were used throughout most of the 20th century to propel ships?
What gearing was used on steam turbine marine engines in the 20th century?
What percentage of electricity was made by power plants in the 1990s?
What marine engines were less efficient than gas turbines?
What engines, along with diesel engines, have overtaken steam engines for gas propulsion?
What engines were used throughout most of the 20th century to propel power plants?
What gearing was used on steam turbine engines until the 1990s?
What is the steam engine's thermodynamic basis?
What happens to waste heat in the Rankine cycle?
In what decade did the Rankine cycle create 90% of electric power?
Along with solar, coal and nuclear, what sort of plants notable use the Rankine process?
What is William Rankine's nationality?
What is the exhaust's thermodynamic basis?
What happens to waste heat in the water?
In what decade did the Rankine cycle create 90% of engine components?
What, along with solar, coal, and nuclear, uses the heat process?
What is William Jones's nationality?
How was the efficiency of a steam engine typically evaluated?
Who invented the notion of a steam engine's duty?
What is the weight of a bushel of coal in pounds?
What was the ideal duty of a Newcomen engine?
What was the average duty of a low-pressure Watt engine?
How was the efficiency of a concept engine typically evaluated?
Who invented the notion of a concept engine's duty?
What is the weight of a bushel of engines in pounds?
What was the ideal duty of a concept engine?
What was the average duty of a concept engine?
What type of engines became popular for power generation after piston steam engines?
What type of steam engines produced most power up to the early 20th century?
What type of steam engine produces most electricity in the world today?
Along with electric motors, what type of engines superseded piston steam engines?
What type of engines became popular for power generation after electric engines?
What type of electric engines produced most power up to the early 20th century?
What type of electric engine produces most electricity in the world today?
Along with electric motors, what type of engines superseded turbines?
What is continuing with energy levels far beyond the turn of the 20th century?
Who developed the first commercial steam powered device?
What was the first steam powered device used commercially?
In what year was the first commercial steam powered device invented?
Who notably improved the Savery water pump?
Who wrote of the Savery water pump in 1751's Philosophical Transactions?
Who developed the first commercial engine powered device?
What was the first textile device used commercially?
In what year was the first commercial textile device invented?
Who notably improved the Smeaton water pump?
Who wrote of the Smeaton water pump in 1751's Philosophical Transactions?
Who invented a high-pressure steam engine around 1800?
Who created an engine using high pressure steam in 1801?
In what year did Richard Trevithick patent his device?
High pressure steam engines were small enough that they could be used in what application?
What were steam engines used as a source of?
Who invented a high-pressure power source around 1800?
Who created an engine using transport applications in 1801?
In what year did Oliver Evans patent his device?
High pressure power sources were small enough that they could be used in what application?
What were manufacturing techniques used as a source of?
What modern company has been notably working on a steam engine using modern materials?
Where is Energiprojekt AB based?
How many cylinders does the Energiprojekt AB engine have?
How many pounds of steam per kilowatt hour does the Energiprojekt AB engine use?
What percentage of a high pressure engine's efficiency has the Energiprojekt AB engine achieved?
What modern company has been notably working on a combustion engine using modern materials?
Where are high-pressure engines based?
How many cylinders does the compound engine have?
How many pounds of steam per kilowatt hour does the internal combustion engine use?
What percentage of a high pressure engine's efficiency has the compound engine achieved?
What do power station steam turbines use as a cold sink in the absence of CHP?
What device is a dry cooling tower similar to?
In what sort of places are dry cooling towers used?
An evaporative cooling tower is also referred to as what kind of cooling tower?
About how many cubic meters of make-up water is used by a 700-megawatt coal-fired power plant for evaporative cooling hourly?
What do power station steam turbines use as a cold sink in the absence of water?
What device is energy removal similar to?
In what sort of places are rivers used?
A water cooling tower is also referred to as what kind of cooling tower?
About how many cubic meters of make-up water is used by a 700-megawatt water-fired power plant for evaporative cooling hourly?
What did Watt add to the steam engine in 1788?
What was the name of Watt's partner?
Where was the centrifugal governor first observed by Boulton?
What is an examine of work that a centrifugal governor-equipped steam engine wasn't suitable for?
What was the centrifugal governor incapable of doing?
What did Watt add to the steam engine in 19th century?
What was the name of Watt's boss?
Where was the centrifugal governor first observed by Watt?
What is an example of work that a centrifugal governor-equipped steam engine was suitable for?
What were the centrifugal changes in load incapable of doing?
After what year was compounding frequently used in marine engines?
Compounding was not popular in the construction of what machines?
What was compounding seen as being in the locomotive construction industry?
After what year did compounding cease to be used in Britain?
Along with marine engines and industrial units, in what machines was compounding popular?
After what year was compounding frequently used in railway engines?
Compounding was not popular in the loading of what machines?
What was compounding seen as being in the marine industry?
After what year did marine locomotives cease to be used in Britain?
Along with marine engines and industrial units, in what machines were marine locomotives popular?
What is another term for shortening the admission event?
What is another term for excessive compression?
What can the exhaust steam not fully do when the exhaust event is insufficiently long?
Of what length are engine cycle events when the simplest valve gears are used?
What is another term for shortening the expansion event?
What is another term for excessive shortening?
What can the exhaust steam not fully do when the steam event is insufficiently long?
Of what length are engine cycle events when the simplest exhaust compression is used?
What do the simplest compression cylinders give during the engine cycle?
Who received the first steam engine patent?
What was the nationality of Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont?
In what year did Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont receive a steam engine patent?
In what year did Savery patent his steam pump?
In what year did Newcomen's engine pump in a mine?
Who received the first chamber engine patent?
What was the nationality of Thomas Newcomen?
In what year did Thomas Newcomen receive a steam engine patent?
In what year did Newcomen patent his steam pump?
In what year did Savery's engine pump in a mine?
What is another term for rotors?
In a steam turbine, what are rotors mounted on?
What is another way of referring to stators?
What are stators attached to?
In the United States, what is a usual turbine speed with 60 Hertz of power?
What is another term for turbines?
In a steam turbine, what are discs mounted on?
What is another way of referring to power systems?
What are rotors attaches to?
IN the United States, what is a maximum potential with 60 Hertz of power?
What is the power-to-weight ratio of a steam plant compared to that of an internal combustion engine?
Along with internal combustion engines, what machines have superseded steam in some areas?
What plants create most electric power?
What is the name of the movement that seeks renewed use of steam power in the modern era?
Along with fuel sources, what concern has contributed to the development of the Advanced Steam movement?
What is the power-to-weight ratio of a steam plant compared to that of a steam engine?
Along with internal combustion engines, what machines have superseded power in some areas?
What plants create most combustion power?
What is the name of the movement that seeks renewed use of combustion power in the modern era?
Along with fuel sources, what concern has contributed to the development of the combustion movement?
What is an example of a rotary engine without pistons?
What parts of a conventional reciprocating steam engine could be replaced by a pistonless rotary engine?
Along with wear, what development makes it difficult to seal the rotors in an engine that lacks pistons?
What is an example of a rotary engine without leakage?
What parts of a conventional reciprocating steam engine could be replaced by a pistonless valve gear?
What development, along with wear, makes it difficult to seal the rotors in an engine that lacks steam? 
What is not a problem?
What is not based on a pistonless rotary engine?
When did Watt finish the development of his improvements to Newcomen's engine?
What did Watt add to Newcomen's engine between 1763 and 1775?
Compared to Smeaton's improvement on Newcomen's engine, how much coal did Watt's engine use?
In addition to Watt, Boulton and Smeaton, whose engine was an atmosphere design?
In an atmospheric engine, what does air pressure push against?
When did Watt finish the development of his improvements to engine cylinders?
What did Newcomen add to Wat's engine between 1763 and 1775?
Compared to Smeaton's improvements on Newcomen's engine, how much steam did Watt's engine use?
In addition to Watt, Boulton, and Smeaton, whose engine was a partial condenser design?
In a condenser engine, what does air pressure push against?
How many mechanisms does a typical steam engine have to keep boiler pressure from getting too high?
What is restrained with a lever in the top of a boiler?
What type of valve is used by recent safety valves?
In an adjustable spring-loaded valve, what needs to be broken to allow an operator to tamper with it?
Along with a desire for more steam pressure, what were early drivers looking to generate when they fastened safety valves down?
How many mechanisms does a typical steam engine have to keep spring weight from getting too high?
What is restrained with a lever in the top of a driver?
What type of valve is used by recent springs?
In an adjustable power engine, what needs to be broken to allow an operator to tamper with it?
What, along with a desire for more steam pressure, were early drivers looking to generate when they fastened engines down?
What was the ultimate development of the horizontal engine?
In what year was the Corliss engine patented?
How many valves did the Corliss engine use?
What award was given to Corliss?
How much less steam did the Corliss engine use compared to the Watt engine?
What was the ultimate development of the vertical engine?
In what year was the Rumford engine patented?
How many valves did the Rumford engine use?
What award was inspired by Corliss?
How much less steam did the Rumford engine use compared to the Watt engine?
What scientific field's theory has received contributions from the steam engine?
Who made experimental measurements on a model steam engine?
What was developed from Watt's measurements on a model steam engine?
Who confirmed Watt's discovery of latent heat?
What concept, originally discovered by Black, was later discovered independently by Watt?
What scientific field's theory has received contributions from the Rankine engine?
Who made experimental measurements on a model Rankine cycle?
What was developed from Watt's measurements on an atmospheric concept?
Who confirmed Watt's discovery of mechanical heat?
What concept, originally discovered by Watt, was later discovered independently by Black?
What is a main advantage of the Rankine cycle?
During the compression stage of the Rankine cycle, what state is the working fluid in?
How much turbine power is consumed by the pump while the work fluid is condensed?
What is the approximate turbine entry temperature of a gas turbine?
What is a main advantage of the efficiency cycle?
During the compression stage of the efficiency cycle, what state is the working fluid in?
How much temperature is consumed by the pump while the work fluid is condensed?
What is the approximate turbine entry temperature of a pump turbine?
What results in the work required by the pump to consume only 0.5% of the turbine power?
What is an example of a pump component?
In addition to recirculating water, what do condensers do?
What components raise steam temperature above its saturated vapor point?
What is another name for a coal supply bin?
What mechanism moves coal from a bunker to the firebox?
What is an example of a firebox?
IN addition to recirculating water, what do bunkers do?
What components raise steam temperature above its saturated firebox point?
What is another name for a firebox?
What mechanism moves coal from a firebox to a bunker?
The frequent availability of what substance allowed land-based steam engines to exhaust a great deal of steam?
People of what nationality invented the steam turbine?
What was an example of a type of warship that required high speed?
Other than warships, what ships typically required high speeds?
In what year was HMS Dreadnought launched?
The frequent availability of what substance allowed land-based steam engines to exhaust a great deal of battleships?
People of what nationality invented the HMS Dreadnought?
What was an example of a type of warship that required expansion engines?
What ships, other than warships, typically required expansion engines?
In what year was World War I launched?
What do nuclear power plants heat to create electricity?
What does the steam generated by a nuclear power plant drive?
In a nuclear power plant, what is the steam turbine connected to?
What is it called when steam propels a turbo generator with electric motor propulsion?
Where were non-condensing direct-drive locomotives notably used for fast passenger trains?
What do nuclear power plants heat to create steam turbines?
What does the steam generated by a auxiliary power drive?
What in a nuclear power plant is the diesel turbine connected to?
What is it called when steam propels a turbo generator with diesel motor propulsion?
Where were non-condensing direct-drive locomotives notably used for fast passenger ships?
What is the Rankine cycle sometimes called?
Where does heat rejection occur in the Rankine cycle?
What does isobaric mean?
What is a term that means constant temperature?
In the Rankine cycle, in what state is the working fluid received in the condenser?
What is the cycle condenser sometimes called?
Where does heat rejection occur in the Rankine cycle?
What does Carnot mean?
What is a term that means constant energy?
In the Rankine cycle, in what state is the working fluid received in the steam?
The atomic number of the periodic table for oxygen?
What is the second most abundant element?
Which gas makes up 20.8% of the Earth's atmosphere?
How many atoms combine to form dioxygen?
Roughly, how much oxygen makes up the Earth crust?
What is the atomic number of the element oxygen?
Of what group in the periodic table is oxygen a member?
What type of compounds does oxygen most commonly form?
Compared to other elements, how abundant does oxygen rank?
Under normal conditions, what do two atoms of oxygen form?
What element has an atomic symbol of O?
What element has a symbol number of 8?
What is the most abundant element in the universe followed by hydrogen and helium?
What constitutes 28.0% of the Earth's atmosphere?
Oxygen is released in cellular respiration by?
Photosynthesis uses which energy to for oxygen from water?
_____ Helps the biospher from UV.
What element is found in most organic organisms?
In what major portion of living things is oxygen found?
What life process produces oxygen in the presence of light?
From what does photosynthesis get oxygen?
What form of oxygen is composed of three oxygen atoms?
What are examples of organic proteins? 
What is used in photosynthesis and released by cellular respiration? 
What absorbs UBV rays?
What is UBV radiation a form of near the surface?
Who proved that air is necessary for combustion?
What English chemist showed that fire only needed nitoaereus?
What is consumed in both combustion and respiration?
John Mayow died in what year?
What researcher showed that air is a necessity for combustion?
What did John Mayow  name the part of air that caused combustion?
In what century did Mayow and Boyle perform their experiments?
Besides combustion, for what other action did Mayow show nitroaereus responsible?
What chemist showed that fire needed only a part of air?
What did John Mayow prove that air is necessary for?
What years was chemist John Boyle alive?
When did Robert Mayow prove his theories?
Who refined Robert Mayow's work?
What was the profession of John Boyle?
"An Account of Further Discoveries in Air" was published by who in 1775?
What was the occupation of Joseph Priestley?
By sunlight, what compound did  Priestley concentrate on to make the gas he called "dephlogisticated air"?
The symbol for mercuric oxide is?
What chemical did Priestley use in his experiments on oxygen?
What did Priestley name the gas his experiment produced?
In what year did Priestley publish the findings of his experiments?
Why is Priestley usually given credit for being first to discover oxygen?
What effect did breathing Priestley's discovered gas have on the experiment's mouse?
Who conducted an experiment on August 4, 1774?
What did Joseph Priestley's August 4, 1774 experiment focus on?
What did Priestley publish in 1774?
What did Priestley name the air he created?
What inventor built on to the findings of Philo of  Byzantium?
Pneumatica was written by what Greek writer?
In what year was the first known experiments on combustion and air conducted?
Philo of Byzantium ____ surmised that air converted to fire
What early Greek wrote about experiments on air and combustion?
What did Philo incorrectly assume that the air became?
What was the title of Philo's work?
What famous artist later further investigated Philo's experiments?
Of what did da Vinci think a part  was consumed during combustion?
What type of experiment did Philo of Pneumatica preform?
During what century did Philo of Pneumatica preform his experiments involving combustion?
Who built on Philo of Pneumatica's work?
What nationality was Leonardo da Vinci?
What is needed to make combustion happen?
Combustion is caused by an oxidant and a fuel. What role does oxygen play in combustion?
Peroxides, nitrates and dichromates are examples of what type of compounds?
Although not a fuel  ___ is the chemical compound the generates the most occurrence of explosions.
What can concentrated oxygen produce?
What is a spark or heat to the progress of a fire?
Rather than the fuel, what is oxygen to a fire?
What does oxygen the basis for in combustion?
What other sources of high oxidative potential can add to a fire?
What do rapid concentrated sources of oxygen promote?
What is oxygen instead of an oxidant?
What is fuel the source of?
What type of hazard is oxygen considered? 
What can donate dichromates to a fire?
______ In both liquid and gas form can fastly result in an exlposion.
To ensure safety of future space missions Oxygen was used at _____ of the normal pressure.
To reduce the chances of combustion ___ is required for safely handeling pure O.
What will concentrated oxygen greatly speed up?
Because of the danger inherent in concentrated oxygen, what is a concern about keeping it?
What does the transport and storage demand for safety in dealing with oxygen?
Who did a pressurized oxygen cabin fire kill?
How will steel pipes allow combustion to proceed?
What type of fire killed the Apollo 1 crew?
What does concentrated O allow combustion to do?
Silicates of magnesium and iron make up of the Earth's ___
Granite is made up largely of what chemical compound?
Oxygen exists in the atmosphere by way of what?
In what compound is oxygen found in small amounts in the atmosphere?
What geologic feature is composed of oxygen oxides?
What part of the Earth is composed of mostly of silicates of iron and magnesium?
What part of the Earth's geological structure is larger than the crust?
Aside from oxides, what other compounds comprise a large portion of the Earth's crust?
What is CO? 
What is SiO?
What is AlO?
What is Fe2O?
What did John Dalton think that all elements were in number present in compounds?
What did Dalton think the atomic ratios were between atoms in compounds?
What was Dalton's erroneous formula for water?
What element did Gay-Lussac and von Humboldt discover was present in twice the amount of oxygen in water?
What theory was arrived at in 1811 that presented the assumption of diatomic molecules?
What did John Dalton hypothesize in 1805?
What did Dalton assume about OH?
What did Joseph Louis von Humboldt and Alexander Gay-Lussac show about water?
What year did Joseph Louis von Humboldt define the formula for water?
What law was created in 1805?
Of what were materials that left little residue thought to contain?
What type of combustible materials were considered to have little philogiston?
What distinct quality of combustion was  absent from philogiston theory? 
What material's weight gain during rusting was an early clue that philogiston theory was wrong?
What characteristic due most items display after burning?
What was iron found to be made mostly of?
What highly combustible materials corrode?
What was a first clue that the phlogiston theory was correct?
Who was iron thought to have a lot of?
How is dioxygen most simply described?
What is the bond order of dioxygen molecules?
What is a descriptive term for a low-to-high energy bond?
In dioxygen how are the two oxygen atoms bonded together?
Of what does the covalent double bond result from ?
How is the dioxygen covalent bond explained?
What is covalent bond a result of?
What axis do the 2p orbitals overlap with?
How many pairs of 2p orbitals lie along the O-O axis?
When did Carl Wilhelm Scheele discover oxygen?
In what year did Joseph Priestley recognize oxygen?
What gave Priestley the claim to being the first discovered of oxygen?
What researcher first used the word oxygen ?
What previous work did Lavoisier experiments discredit?
When did Carl Priestly discover oxygen?
When did Joseph Scheele discover oxygen?
Who coined the name oxygen in 1774?
Whose experiments with oxygen led to the popular theory of combustion and corrosion?
What is the term for the arrangement of two unpaired electrons in dioxygen?
How is the O2 molecule referred to in its ground state? 
What causes triplet oxygen to react slowly?
What type of combustion does the slow reaction of triplet oxygen prevent?
What are the weakly filled higher orbitals of oxygen?
What is the ground state of the O molecule referred to as?
What results in dioxygen's triplet bond character?
What does double oxygen react slowly with?
What does double oxygen reacting slowly with most organic molecules prevent?
What did Lavoisier conclude was consumed by combustion in his experiments?
In what way did Lavoisier see that the tin he used in his experiment had increased?
What did Lavoisier perceive the air had lost as much as the tin had gained
In what year did Lavoisier publish his work on combustion?
What second part of air was deemed lifeless by Lavoisier?
What is another term for vital air?
What is the English word for nitrogen?
When was the book, Sur, published?
What is the name for O3 most often used?
Of what is ozone a reactive part of oxygen?
What  does ozone's characteristic to cause damage effect?
What function does ozone perform for the planet?
What light radiation does ozone absorb?
What is trioxygen (O2) known as?
What is another term for the upper atmosphere?
What was proven in 2001 in regard to the solid oxygen phase?
What was discovered in 2006 in regard to O4?
What is the most common form of oxygen on the planet?
What is the scientific designation of oxygen? 
What part the composition of the Earth's atmosphere is comprised of oxygen?
What characteristic of oxygen makes it necessary to life?
For what purpose is oxygen used by animal life?
What is oxygen on Earth, O, referred to as?
What has a bond energy of 121 pm?
What has a bond length of 498 kJ·mol−1?
Why do animals use O2 for biological respiration?
What chemist managed to make enough liquid oxygen to use for study?
In what year did Dewar experiment on liquid oxygen?
When was liquid oxygen developed for commercial use?
What welding process was demonstrated in 1901?
Who produced enough oxygen to study in 1819?
What was developed in 1859?
What was developed by Carl von Hampson and William Linde?
What was demonstrated for the first time in 1910?
What component of water is more soluble than nitrogen?
Upon what chemical characteristic is oxygen's solubility dependent?
How much oxygen is found is a liter of fresh water under normal conditions?
In what type of water does oxygen dissolve more slowly?
How much more oxygen dissolves at 0 degrees C than at 20 degrees C?
What is nitrogen more water soluble than?
What does air in equilibrium with water contain?
What is the solubility water in oxygen dependent on?
What is equivalent to 103.1 kPa?
Where does oxygen rank by mass in the planet's biosphere?
How is oxygen ranked as abundant in the universe?
How much of the sun is made up of oxygen?
Where  by mass is oxygen a major part?
How is oxygen produced from carbon dioxide on the other planets of the solar system?
What is the most abundant mass element in the Earth's biosphere? 
What elements follow oxygen as the most abundant in the universe?
What makes up 49.2% of the sun's mass?
What makes up 0.9% of the Earth's crust by mass?
What takes up 23.1% of the Earth's mass?
By what century did researchers see that they could liquefy air?
By what means were scientists able to liquefy air?
What scientist told the French Academy of Sciences that he had found how to liquefy oxygen?
What minor amount of liquid oxygen was produced by early French experimenters?
On what date was oxygen liquefied in a stable form?
What were Pierre Raoul Pictet's professions?
What was sent on December 29, 1877?
What was liquified in a stable state for the first time on March 22, 1883?
Who liquified oxygen in a stable state on March 22, 1883?
What university were Zygumunt Olszewski and Karol Wroblewski from?
What celestial object eluded efforts to measure oxygen?
What molecule does the Sun have in higher proportion than Earth?
What spacecraft contained data to determine the oxygen content of the Sun?
What type of process was involved the the depletion of the Sun's oxygen 16?
Before the formation of which planet, did Sol lose oxygen 16?
Where have Genesis geologists measured oxygen isotopes?
Where were Genesis geologists unable to measure oxygen?
What did the Planetary spacecraft analyze?
What does the Earth have a higher proportion of oxygen-16 than?
What is the name for a form of oxygen in which electrons are paired?
To what is singlet oxygen more reactive?
In what process is singlet oxygen usually formed?
By what process is singlet oxygen made in the tropophere?
What objects in organisms absorb singlet oxygen to prevent harm?
What is formed in nature from energy during photosynthesis?
What is paired oxygen?
Where is paired oxygen produced?
What plays a major role in absorbing oxygen?
What group of scientists seek to measure the amounts of oxygen in marine animals?
About what weather feature do paleoclimatologists want information ?
How much heavier is oxygen 18 than oxygen 16?
What form of oxygen do marine animals acquire in greater amounts during cooler climatic conditions?
During what type of climate is oxygen 18 in seawater at higher levels?
Who measures oxygen-18 and oxygen-16 in skeletons of all organisms?
What is oxygen-16 the lighter one of?
How much lighter is oxygen-18?
Water higher in oxygen-16 experienced higher what?
At what wavelength do the spectrophotometric bands peak?
To monitor what event would measuring radiance from vegetation provide information?
From where would scientists like measure vegetation radiance?
On what scale would scientists show measurements of vegetation?
What style of sensing do scientist like to use to measure global radiance?
What peaks at 680 and 768 nm wavelengths?
What have scientists proposed using to characterize plant platform status?
What is difficult with a satellite-to-noise ratio?
What magnetic character do triplet O2 have?
In experiments, a bridge of what element can be built between poles of a magnet?
The spin of what can produce a magnetic effect to oxygen molecules?
What kind of field is necessary to produce a magnet effect in oxygen molecules?
What device is used to test the magnetic attractions involved in liquid oxygen?
What are O molecules in triplet form?
Why are O molecules paramagnetic?
What is attracted to the poles of a powerful magnet?
What do the reactive forms of oxygen produce in organisms?
For what purpose do organisms make peroxide and superoxide?
Against what does reactive oxygen play in plant defense?
To what type of organisms is oxygen toxic?
When did O2 begin to acculturate in the atmosphere?
What is 2H02?
What is formula for the reactive oxygen ion?
What are products of oxygen use in organisms? 
What began to accumulate 5.2 billion years ago?
What event occurred 5.2 billion years ago?
At what temperature will oxygen condense?
What is the clarity of liquid oxygen?
What substance is used to make high quality liquid O2?
What element is used as a coolant in the process of making liquid oxygen?
From what type of materials must liquid oxygen be separated?
What condenses at 54.36 K?
What freezes at 90.20 K?
What is red in both the liquid and solid states?
Why does the O2 appear red?
Where on Earth is free oxygen found?
At what temperatures is O2 more soluble?
Why do polar water bodies support a higher amount of life?
What measurement do scientists used to determine the quality of water?
Pollution of water by nitrates and phosphates will encourage the growth of what?
Why do polar oceans support reduced amounts of life?
What pollution process stimulates the growth of nitrates?
What can reduce density of O2 in eutrophic water bodies?
What do phosphates do to the growth of nitrates?
When did photosynthetic organisms evolve on Earth?
During which eon did free oxygen begin appearing in quantity?
At first, what did oxygen and iron combine to form?
How long ago did oxygen reach 10% of its present level?
When did oxygen begin to move from the oceans to the atmosphere?
What evolved 5.3 billion years ago?
What eon took place between 3.3 and 2.0 billion years ago?
What happened 3.7-2 billion years ago?
What did oxygen reach 1.2 billion years ago?
What produces the high levels of oxygen on Earth?
What type of process is the oxygen cycle?
In how many places is oxygen stored in its cycle?
What process is responsible for the planet's oxygen content?
What does photosynthesis release into the Earth's atmosphere?
What does respiration release into the atmosphere?
What are the three main oxygen cycles on Earth?
What occurs at the same rate of 1/200th of the entire atmospheric oxygen per year?
What oxygen reservoir is the driving factor of the oxygen cycle?
What mechanism can be used to make oxygen?
What percentage of oxygen will a zeolite sieve produce?
While producing oxygen, what gas does a zeolite sieve absorb?
What type of technology is the non organic separating of gases?
How much is the sieve method of gas production used?
What beds are nitrogen-saturated? 
What is known as swing pressure adsorption?
What involves delivering a gas stream that is 9% to 93% O2?
Electrolysis of what can be used to produce oxygen and hydrogen?
What does the electrolysis of water produce?
What type of electric current is needed for electrolysis?
What is the source of oxygen production through electrocatalytic means?
What other catalysts can be used to produce oxygen?
What can be produced through electrolysis of molecular water?
Why must DC electricity not be used?
What chemical catalysts can be used in electrocatalytic O2 evolution?
What do oxoacids evolve from?
As a euphoric how is oxygen used in bars?
What is the effect on humans of oxygen?
What do professional athletes seek to boost from breathing oxygen?
What type of exercise does research show receives a boost in performance from oxygen?
What is the most likely effect of breathing oxygen?
What is considered to be a recreational euphoric?
What establishments have been around since 1990?
Where have oxygen bars been since 1990?
What type of pharmacological effect is most likely an explanation for the "boost" from oxygen?
What device is used to treat various conditions such as carbon monoxide poisoning?
What does increased oxygen concentrations in the patient's lungs displace?
To what pathogen that causes gas gangrene is oxygen poisonous?
What occurs after a dive in which a diver decompresses too quickly?
What medicines to do hyperbaric chambers use?
What is treated with medical chambers?
What is carbon monoxide poisonous to that can cause gas gangrene?
Who does decompression oxygen sickness occur in?
In what process is the uptake from oxygen necessary?
What medical treatment is used to increase oxygen uptake in a patient?
By decreasing resistance to blood flow in the lungs, what organ's workload  can be eased?
What medical treatment is used to benefit patients with hearth and lung disorders?
What does  oxygen therapy promote the body to take up?
What is the essential purpose of supplementation? 
What field is respiration used in?
What is oxygen respiration therapy used to treat?
What does treatment only do?
What characteristic of oxygen causes it to form bonds with other elements?
What is usual form of oxygen bound compounds?
What is the mineral wustite?
What does oxygen cause to form on metals?
What does the film of oxide on metals delay?
What does oxygen form bonds with all other types of?
Why does oxygen form bonds with all other types of elements?
What mineral is written as Fe1 - oX?
What is X in Fe1 - oX?
What event would necessitate airline passengers to need a supplemental supply of oxygen? 
What is the type of oxygen production for emergency oxygen in airlines?
What type of reaction is present in the emergency oxygen generator of an airplane?
What gas does the airline exothermic reaction produce?
Who sometimes have supplemental O supplies?
Who has an emergency supply of O?
In case of cabin pressurization, what is available to passengers?
What type of reaction produces oxygen in plane cabins?
What do oxygen tanks, cryogenics, and chemical compounds serve as for oxygen?
In what state is oxygen shipped in bulk?
By what means is bulk oxygen shipped?
In what form is oxygen transported in smaller containers?
What type of organization would need large quantities of pure oxygen?
What is the cryogenic and chemical compound storage method?
Why is oxygen often transported in cryogenics?
What is equivalent to 804 liters of gaseous oxygen?
What must be at 28°C?
What type of compounds such as acetone,contain oxygen?
In what group of compounds is oxygen a necessary part?
What function do compounds like phenol and acetone serve in the manufacture of many other substances?
In what compound is oxygen part of a ring arrangement?
How are the compounds that contain oxygen considered in commerce?
What important solvents contain oxygen?
What compounds contain oxygen?
What is O-R-O?
What is R-OC-R?
What is R-OOC-R?
In what type of molecules are oxygen found?
How many biomolecules contain no oxygen?
Which organic compounds contain the greatest amount of oxygen by mass?
Besides fats, fatty acids, and amino acids,what other organic compounds contain oxygen?
In what calcium containing body part is oxygen a part?
What element is found in all biomolecules? 
What element do squalene and the carotenes contain?
What are APT and ADP?
What do carbohydrates have the most of by mass?
What health condition can deep sea diving cause?
To what can the use of prolonged breathing of oxygen at 60 kPa lead?
Pressures greater than what can lead to convulsions?
What is the most feared condition that divers want to avoid?
What physical condition can acute oxygen toxicity cause?
What can happen when breathing in oxygen with 60 atm?
What can exposure to partial gas pressures greater than 166 kPa cause?
What can happen when breathing 26% O2 at 62 m?
What can occur from breathing 100% O2?
Why is breathing oxygen in space craft not dangerous to health?
What is the oxygen partial pressure of space suits?
How much of normal is the oxygen breathed in space suits?
What si the comparison to sea level with the oxygen level in space suits?
How much damage does breathing oxygen in space conditions cause?
What damage was caused by breathing pure O in space applications?
Why was no damage caused by breathing pure O in space applications?
What measures at 1.4 kPa?
What is the partial pressure of O in breathing gas?
When can oxygen gas produce a toxic condition?
At what point does oxygen toxicity begin to happen?
To what is 50 kilopascals equal?
What medical appliance can be a concern for oxygen toxicity?
What percentage of oxygen is usually supplied by a medical mask?
When can partial oxygen be toxic?
What is equal to 5% oxygen consumption?
What does kAp stand for?
What is composed of 21%-50% O2 by volume?
When did the 1973 oil crisis begin?
What was the price of oil in March of 1974?
When was the second oil crisis?
What was another term used for the oil crisis?
Who proclaimed the oil embargo?
When did OPEC begin?
What action did the US begin that started the second oil shock?
What was the price of oil in 1979 before it rose?
What did the price of oil rise to in 1979 globally?
What is the term that describes what  happened in 1979 when the US prices of oil were higher?
What month did the oil crisis begin? 
Who did OAPEC include? 
What was the oil crisis called
What came after this oil crisis? 
What caused the crisis? 
Why did the European nations and Japan separated themselves from United States during the crisis?
How did the Nixon administration negotiate with the uncooperative countries?
On what date did Henry Kissinger negotiate an Israeli troop withdrawal from the Sinai Peninsula?
When did the Arab oil producers lift the embargo?
How did the crisis impact Arabs?
What did Israel and Syria do to avoid being targeted by the boycott?
What did Arab oil producers link to Japan?
What did NATO negotiate?
What did Japan lift in March 1974?
What did the oil crisis create a rift within? 
European nations and which country disassociated themselves from the US for this reason? 
Who linked any future policy changes to peace? 
What negotiations did Nixon Administrations begin?
Which country was to pull back from the Sinai Peninsula?
When did the United States withdraw from the Bretton Woods Accord?
What does it mean when currencies are left to "float?"
Why was there a depreciation of the industrialized nations dollars?
When did oil start getting priced in the terms of gold?
Why did oil start getting priced in terms of gold?
In what year did OPEC pull out of the Bretton Woods Accord?
What happened to other currencies value when the US abandoned oil?
What did Britain do in September 1971?
Why did OPEC dollars depriciate?
When was oil priced based on pound sterling?
What did the US withdraw from in 1971? 
What did the US abandon? 
What does the dollar value do? 
What does it mean for the dollar to float? 
When did OPEC  issue a joint communique? 
From 1947 to 1967, how much did the price of oil increase?
When did OPEC start to readjust oil prices?
When did oil finally returned to its Bretton Woods levels?
The price of oil is usually a stable commodity until when?
How much had the price of gold risen after 1971?
Until the oil shock how had the price of gold been?
What happened to Bretton Woods income due to prices not being in sync with the market?
When did institutional mechanisms finally return to Bretton Woods levels?
When did commodities readjust to oil prices?
Who was slow to readjust prices? 
What years did the dollar price of oil rise by 2% per year? 
What happened in 1973-1974?
Prices remained stable until what?
When did Syria and Egypt launch a surprise attack on Israel?
Who was the world's second largest oil producer?
How many times more did the other nations have to pay for oil after the surprise attack?
Which oil producer is a close ally of the United States?
Why did the Shah of Iran gave an interview?
What did Iran do on Yom Kippur on October 6, 1973?
Who was the worlds second largest wheat exporter to the middle east?
What did Syria decide that the price of oil should be after the attack?
What did Egypt say that Iran increased the price of wheat they sell by?
What does Syria sell refined oil for to the middle east?
What happened on October 6, 1973 with Syria and Egypt? 
What holiday did Syria and Egypt launch an attack? 
Iran was which size oil exporter?
What was Iran's relationship with the US at this time? 
How much did they say it was fair to raise the prices? 
Why did OPEC raise the price of oil to $5.11?
When did they raise the price of oil to $5.11?
Why did the oil ministers agree to a cut in oil production?
How much was the emergency aid to Israel?
Why did OPEC block oil deliveries to the United States?
What did Geroge Lenczowski do to the price of oil on October 16, 1973?
What did various countries request of Congress?
What decision triggered a response from a principal hostile country?
What was the announcement made immediately by Kuwait?
What did Nixon join on October 20, 1973?
OPEC did what to the prices of oil on October 16th?
What percentage did OPEC raise the price of oil?
What was the price of oil after the raise? 
Who announced it would embargo oil shipments to the US?
When did Saudi Arabia join the embargo? 
How much did Saudi Arabia spend on spreading Wahhabism?
Which group benefited from the funds distributed by the religious charity, al-Haramain Foundation?
Some of the income went to the purchase of arms which exacerbated political tension especially in which area?
What is one of the reason that underdeveloped nations received aid from the oil income?
What is a fundamentalist interpretation of Islam called?
How much did Saudi Arabia spend on Western demand for oil?
Some of the export commodities that were used for oil purchases helped create tensions where?
When did Saudi Arabia spend 100 billion on oil prices?
What is a fundamentalist interpretation of al-Haramain called?
What is one reason that Al-Qaeda received aid from Sunni extremists?
What is one of the reason that US production has been held responsible for recessions and lower economic growth?
US is concerned about confrontation of the Middle East with which other country?
Scholars stated that there was already an existing settlement between 2 parties prior to which date?
Interest groups and government agencies that were concerned with energy were no match for who?
What has the USSR been held responsible for regarding oil?
What is the US concerned more about than inflation?
What was the Middle East not a match for?
What already existed in the USSR before 1973?
What was the USSR and the US more worried about?
What has a negative influence over the US economy?
On an international level, which industry's competitive positions is affected? 
Which problem consists of both  inflationary and deflationary impacts?
The oil crisis caused oil companies to increase oil supplies in which area?
How long does it take for new areas to have significant oil production?
What did developing new oil fields have a negative influence on?
How did developing new oil fields influence the US economy?
What did energy security do on an international level?
What problem consists of trying to increase oil supplies and threats to US energy security?
What did macroeconomic problems cause oil companies to search for?
Which country faced a complete embargo in the EEC?
The UK and France had non interruptions in their oil supply as they did not allow which country to use their airfield?
Which country is a traditional ally of Israel?
Harold WInston's supported which country's during its six day war?
Who wanted Israel to withdraw from its border?
What was the embargo like in Israel?
What did the Netherlands not let America use during the embargo?
Who did the EEC support during the Six-Day War?
Who is France a traditional ally of?
What did Harold Wilson call for Israel to do in 1970?
Which country is not badly hit by the embargo?
What caused UK to have an oil crisis in its own country?
When did the series of strikes happen?
Name one country that banned boating, driving and flying on Sundays.
Which country rationed gasoline and heating gas?
What did the UK ban on Sundays due to the embargo?
What was rationed by railroad workers?
What happened in the UK if you used more than your ration of electricity?
What country is not that affected by the change of government?
What did Heath ask Norway to do over the winter?
What made the oil crisis worse in the US?
Why are newly discovered oil sold at a higher price?
Why was old oil withdrawn from the market?
How was scarcity managed in many countries?
Why was old oil sold at a higher price?
What happened when new oil was withdrawn from the market?
What was rationing intended to promote in the market?
What action was taken to address price controls?
How did old oil affect motorists in many countries?
Who is the first administrator of the Federal Energy Office?
When was he elected by Nixon?
Why was this short termed organization created?
According to the AAA, what is the percentage of the gas stations that ran out of gasoline?
What percentage of American gas stations were out of fuel in 1973?
In 1973 what was Nixon named as?
What was the American Automobile Association created to do?
How much oil did Nixon give to states in 1974?
What was common in states without population increases?
What is the speed limit set to reduce consumption?
What is the name of the law which imposed the speed limit?
Which president ended the Emergency Energy Conservation Act?
When was the National Highway Designated Act signed?
When was the cabinet-level Energy Department created?
What was imposed on November 28 1995 by the Emergency Highway Energy Conservation Act?
What is the name of the President that imposed the speed limit?
What did the Department of Energy end in 1974?
On Novermber 28, 1995 what did the Department of Energy end?
What speed did the National Highway Designation Act prevent you from going beyond?
What was the catalyst that created greater interest in renewable resources?
There is criticism that the energy policies are expensive quick fixes that ignore which facts?
Who backed policies that have solutions that sound good but have poor prospects?
What kinds of energy did single-shot solutions create interest in?
How have American entrepreneurships been criticized since the crisis?
What policies have been promoted due to nuclear power?
What are the results of policies that use renewable energy?
What have politically correct policies about nuclear power promoted in America?
Which country was thinking about going to war to forcibly take Middle Eastern oil fields?
Which country was worried that the US would invade the Middle East?
How long would the invasion of the Middle East have to last in order to develop renewable resources?
Who would the occupation alienate?
What action did the US plan to take in 2004 due to rising oil prices?
What revealed the intentions of the British in the middle east regarding oil prices in 2004?
What had Edward Heath told Lord Cromer about taking action in the middle east?
What did British Ambassador Lord Cromer order due to his worry about US mid East actions?
What would be a Kuwaiti response to US actions be?
Which country is the most dependent on Arab oil?
How much imported oil came from the Middle East?
To force Japan to be more involved in the crisis, what did Saudi and Kuwaiti government do?
When did Japan release a statement to tell Israelis to withdraw from the Palestine?
When was Japan accepted as an Arab-friendly state?
Which country is most involved in nonviolent policy?
What action was taken against Japan on December 25th to make them change their policy?
What did Israel do to Japan's imported oil to force their involvement in the crisis?
When was Israel declared a nonfriendly country?
When Japan received 71% of its imported oil from the middle east in December what result did it cause in public?
Which country's invasion show the insecurity of the Middle East?
Which countries became dependent on US's security assurance to threats?
Which country's arms purchase from the US became 5 times more than Israel?
When did the Shah kingdom start to collapse?
When did the Wahhabi seized the Grand Mosque in Mecca?
What country did Saudi Arabia invade in 1979?
What are other signs of insecurity in Mecca?
What did the Persian Gulf depend on the Saudis to manage?
What is another reason that Al-Hasa was buying weapons from Russia?
What kind of Sunni muslim monarchy is is Iran lead by?
Which sized cars were the least demanded cars in the crisis?
Which country's cars became more highly sought after as they were more fuel efficient?
What type of engines does the American car typically have?
Which country's imports became the de facto mass market leaders?
What standards did American cars create in the auto industry?
What are two cars with V8 engines that were more fuel efficient?
What type of unibody construction does an American car usually have?
What country became a leader in importing large cars?
What increased demand for cars with six cylinder engines?
When did Honda, Toyota and Nissan open US assembly plants?
Name a larger car that Toyota came up with as buyers lamented the small sized compacts?
Name an extra that was added to the production of the compacts.
Name a luxury division of Toyota.
In 1973 what did Mazda open in the US?
What did Mazda establish in the US in 1973?
What did Mazda want to distinguish itself from by opening assembly plants in 1973?
What did some buyers not like about Acuras?
What are two things that were added to the Lexus in 1981?
Name a type of Toyota compact trucks?
What did Mitsubishi rename its Forte to?
Mazda, Mitsubishi and Isuzu joined partnership with which American car company?
When American car companies rolled out with their domestic replacement cars, which policy ended?
What did Toyota rebrand its Forte as?
What is a type of Dodge built compact truck?
What companies did Toyota, Chevrolet and Dodge have joint partnerships with?
When Japanese companies introduced compact trucks, what policy ended?
What compact truck replacements were introduced by Toyota?
Why did GM, Ford and Chrysler introduced fuel-efficient and small cars to the US market?
How many passengers can the Ford Fiesta accommodate?
By which year did the American cars mpg start to improve?
Name a luxury model that became popular in the mid-1970s.
Which full-sized model cars were not popular?
What did oil price increases force GM, Ford and Chrysler to do?
In 1979, what was the average mpg for American cars?
What was the price of a barrel of oil in 1970?
What are two small car models that didn't recover in 1974?
How many passengers could a Chevrolet Bel Air carry in 1970?
By which year did full sized American cars shrink to be smaller?
By which year did Chrysler ended its full sized luxury model?
Which car shows the DOT's revision of categories?
What happened to safety bumpers in 1979?
When did Dodge end production of their full size sedans?
What was the Plymouth Gran Fury a prelude to in vehicle categories?
What type of vehicle did Chrysler change to in 1977?
What are two changes to GM vehicles that were implemented in 1982?
When was OPEC production of oil being surpassed?
Which year did the price of oil drop to $10 per barrel?
Why did Saudi Arabia try to increase production, and reduce profits for high cost producers?
In 1979, during the oil crisis, what was the highest price of oil?
In what year was other countries oil production surpassed by Saudi Arabia?
What did OPEC do to gain market share in 1979?
What were two consequences of OPEC pushing down oil prices in 1981?
What did the world price of oil peak at in 1973?
What did the price of oil fall to during the 1979 oil crisis?
What is European Union Law?
What are the main sources of primary law?
What are the secondary sources of primary law?
What are the two bodies that make up the European Union's legislature?
What is European Union law?
What effect does European Union law have on laws of member states?
What are the three sources of European Union law?
What are the main legislative bodies of the European Union?
What are the three main sources of European Union law?
What are the main sources of primary law?
What is the legislature of the European Union comprised of?
How many sources of European Union law are there?
What are the three sources of American Union Law?
What is American Union Law a body of?
What are not the 3 sources of European Union law?
What is the last source of European Union law?
The legislature of American Union is principally composed of what?
Who applies European Union law?
Who can enforce the European Union law when member states provide lesser rights?
What is the highest court in the European Union?
What is one of the supplementary sources of European Union law? 
Which two courts apply European Union law?
Under what treaty can the European Commission take action against member states?
Which court is the highest court in the European Union?
What is one supplementary source of European Union law?
By whom is European Law applied by?
Who can enforce European Union law?
What is the highest court in European Union law?
What are some supplementary sources of European Union law?
Who applies American Union law?
Who can enforce the American Union law when members states provide lesser rights?
Who can the American Commission can take proceedings against?
What is the lowest court in the European Union?
What are some supplementary sources of American Union law?
What are the two primary constitutional sources of the European Union?
Who has the power to initiate legislation within the European Union?
Who elects the members of the European Parliament?
What court is able to interpret European Union law?
What governing body appoints commissioners and the board of European Central Bank?
Who has a codified constitution?
What are the primary constitutional sources of the American Union? 
Who does not have the power to initiate legislation within the European Union?
Who elects the members of the American Parliament?
What governing body appoints commissioners and the board of American Central Bank?
Which treaty provides that the European Union law be applied to metropolitan territories of member states?
Are there any regions where the Treaty of European Union excludes from jurisdiction?
What powers does the Court of Justice of the European Union have in regards to treaties?
Under what instances can individuals rely on primary law in the Court of Justice of European Union?
When do treaties apply?
What are the core treaties that the primary law of the EU consists of?
What are some examples of territories where a member state is responsible for external relations?
When do the stated Treaties apply?
Who is suited to interpret the Treaties?
What is not the primary law of the EU?
What does not contain formal and substantive provisions?
What does the TEU not do?
Where does the European Union law not apply?
What does the TEU not allow the European Council to do?
How did the principle treaties that form the European Union begin?
Which two treaties provided more formal institutions of the European Union?
In what years did Spain and Portugal join the European Union?
In 1972, did Norway end up joining the European Union?
Which country in 1985 signed a treaty to give it special status?
What caused the need for principal Treaties that ended up forming the EU?
When year was the Maastrich Treaty signed?
 When was the Single European Act made?
When did Denmark join the EU?
When did Greenland sign a Treaty granting them special status?
How did the principle treaties that form the Canadian Union begin?
Which two treaties provide more formal institutions of the Canadian Union?
What major adjust was made to the treaties in 1960?
What year did Spain and Portugal refuse to join the EU?
What year did the UK, Ireland, Denmark, and Norway refuse to join the EU?
When was there an attempt to reform the law of the EU?
What two country's referendums curtailed a constitution for Europe?
How similar was the Lisbon Treaty to the constitutional treaty?
What type of treaty was the Lisbon Treaty?
Is the Lisbon Treaty one that would alter existing treaties or replace them?
What reform was attempted following the Nice Treaty?
What was an additional projected effect of the attempted reform?
Which caused the reform to never come into force?
What treaty took the place of constitutional treaty? 
What did not happen after the Nice Treaty?
When was the constitution for Europe put into place?
What was not similar to the Lisbon Treaty?
What treaty was enacted in 2004?
Which caused the reform to come into force?
What is the main executive body of the EU?
Who is the sole governing authority capable of initiating legislative proposals?
Which authority figure is designated to schedule and set the work of the EU?
For each of the 28 member states, how many Commissioner's are represented for each one?
Who is the current President and the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy?
Which article of the Treaty on European Union states that Commissioners should be completely independent and not take instructions from any Government?
Who sets the agenda for the EU's work?
How are decisions made on behave of the EU made?
Which country refused to content to changes in the Treaty of Lisbon 2007?
Who are the un-elected subordinates of member state governments?
What was not the main executive body of the EU?
Who was not the sole governing authority capable of initiating legislative proposals?
Who was not given authority to designate an agenda?
What year did Ireland agree to the changes in Treaty of Lisbon?
Who was subjected to a qualified minority vote of the Council for approval?
What commission was censured in 1999, and paved the way for Commissioners to abuse their power?
Did the European Court of Justice rule the defendant in the case of Commission v. Edith Cresson broke any laws?
Who found that there was a developed culture of Commissioner's who lacked responsibility?
Who appoints the board of the European Central Bank?
Can the President of the Council vote on important matters related to the European Central Bank?
When was the Santer Commission censured by Parliament?
The censuring of the Santer Commission  resulted in which main case?
Who found that a culture had developed where few Commissioners had any sense of responsibility?
The corruption found by the Committee of Independent Experts resulted to the creation of what office?
When did the European Anti-Fraud Office investigate John Dalli?
Who was not exempt from member state taxes?
Who did not have immunity from prosecution for doing official acts? 
What commission was found to have abused power in 1980's?
What commission did not resign even though faced corruption allegations?
What minor case was the result of the censuring of the Santer Commission?
The legislative body, the Council, are made up of what type of individuals?
Who is currently the President of the Council?
How are the votes weighted to ensure that smaller states aren't dominated by larger ones?
What are the total number of votes to be counted during the voting process?
Currently, how many votes out of the 352 total votes are needed for a majority?
Which entity is the secondary legislative body?
How often does the European Council meet?
How many votes in total does the Council have?
What is defined as the majority vote?
What is the legislative body not composed of?
Who convenes at the American Council?
Who is currently the Vice President of Council?
What meets every 3 months?
How are the votes weighted to ensure the smaller states are dominated by larger ones?
What type of vote must the Parliament have to either block or suggest changes to the Commission's proposals?
What type of vote must the Council pass in order to approve of any changes recommended by Parliament? 
Is it easier or harder to change EU law than stay the same?
What articles state that unless conferred, powers remain with member states?
Within the EU, which court believes they have the final word deciding on EU's competence?
Which TFEU article defines the ordinary legislative procedure that applies for majority of EU acts?
What can block a legislation?
Which articles state that powers stay with member states unless they've been conferred?
What entity is created if the three different institutions cannot come to a consensus at any stage?
What does TFEU article not define?
How does the TFEU revise old legislation?
What type of vote does the Council not pass in order to disapprove of any changes recommended by Parliament?
What articles do not state that unless conferred, powers remain with the member states?
Who does not have the final say in who ultimately has the competence to define the EU's competence?
Which branch of the EU has had the most influence on the development of EU law?
What is the main judicial body of the EU?
How many total judges are there in the EU?
Under which courts is most EU law applied?
What is the CJEU's duty?
How is the judicial branch of the EU an important factor in the development of EU law?
What is the current main judicial body of the EU?
What entity deals with EU staff issues?
How long is one term for an elected president of the CJEU?
What is the CJEU's duty?
Which branch of the EU has had the least amount of influence on the development of Eu law?
What is not the main judicial body of the EU?
How many total female judges are there in the EU?
Which courts is the least EU law applied?
What does the CJEU duty not emcompass?
If there is a conflict between EU law and national law, which law take precedence?
What was the reason the Italian Constitutional court gave that resulted in Mr. Costa losing his his claim against ENEL?
What were the years two Regulations that conflicted with an Italian law originate in the Simmenthal SpA case? 
Which entities have had to develop principles dedicated to conflict resolution between laws of different systems?
When did Costa v ENEL take place?
Which court argued that the Treaty of Rome did not prevent energy nationalism?
What has operated among a decreasing plurality of national and globalising legal systems?
Who did not have to develop principles to resolve conflicts of laws between different systems?
What major case happened in the 1970's where the Court of Justice held that ultimately the Treaty of Rome in no way prevented energy nationalism?
Which court did not argue that the Treaty of Rome did not prevent energy nationalism?
What do all member states agree takes precedence over national law?
What issues do member states say the Court of Justice does not have the final say on?
When was the European Communities Act created?
In what cases can the EU not override German law?
What does the EU's legitimacy rest on?
What does the EU accept about the Court Justice?
What is the basic principle of the Canadian Parliament?
When was the European Communities Act denied acceptance?
What was not the view of the German Constitutional Court from Solange I and Solange II?
What does the EU's legitimacy not rest on?
Which type of law makes EU institutions and its member states follow the law?
During what year were citizens or corporations said to not be able to bring claims against other non state parties?
Which actions by EU institutions can be subject to judicial review?
Which type of law concerns the EU's governance structure?
What type of law does not make Eu institutions and member states follow the law?
What year were citizens or corporations said to have been able to bring claims against other non state parties?
Who was bound to apply an EU law where a national rule conflicted?
Which actions by EU institutions were not subject to judicial review?
Which type of law did not concern the Eu's governance structure?
In which case was it held that the provisions of the treaties are directly effective if they are clear, unconditional, and don't require further action by EU or national authorities?
Which TEFU article states that no quantitative restrictions can be placed on trade?
What type of company is Van Gend en Loos?
What are EU Regulations essentially the same as in the case mentioned?
What is generally not accepted about EU law?
Who could not recover the money it paid for the tariff?
What does TFEU article not state?
What generally does not allow citizens to sue other citizens?
How many paid holiday days does the Working Time directive require workers to have each year?
How many paid holiday days do most member states require?
When did the three Advocate Generals argue that Directives should create rights and duties for all citizens?
What generally does allow citizens to sue other citizens?
What does TFEU article 288 not say?
How many non paid holidays does the Working time directive require workers to have each year?
What does not require more than 28 days in national law?
What happens first if a Directive's deadline for implementation is not met?
What happens secondly if a Directive's deadline is not met?
How long did Ms Kucukdeveci work for Swedex Gmbh & Co KG before she was dismissed?
Which company did Mrs Foster work for?
At what age did British Gas plc force their workers to retire?
What happens if the Directive's deadline is met?
What did the Italian government not fail to implement?
What a a citizen or company not invoke?
What happens if a Directive doe snot give expression to a "general principle"of EU law?
Who did Ms Kucukdeveci not work for?
Which courts have a duty to interpret domestic law as far as possible?
What does the First Company Law Directive article 11 require?
What did the Italian government fail to do in Francovich v Italy?
How much money was Francovich allowed to claim from the Italian goverment in damages?
Which courts do not have a duty to interpret  domestic law as far a possible?
What does the First Company Law Directive article 11 not require?
What did the Court of Justice not acknowledge?
What did the Italian government not fail to do in Francovich v Italy?
How much money did Francovich not allowed to claim from the Italian government in claims?
Which entity developed the principles of European Union Law?
What are some of the accepted general principles of European Union law?
Which entity did not develop the principles of European Union law?
What sources did the EU courts not drawn on?
What are some of the rejected general principles of European Union law?
What type of rules are expressly provided for in treaties?
How long has Proportionality been recognized as one of the general principles of EU law?
Where is the principle of proportionality recognized in the EC treaty?
Which measure must be adopted when there is a choice between several?
How long has Proportionality not been recognized as one of the general principles of Eu law?
What does the lawfulness of action not depend on?
Which measure is adopted when there is a choice between several inappropriate measures?
Where is the principle of proportionality not recognized in the EC treaty?
What is not stated in Article 5 of the EC Treaty?
How long has the concept of legal certainty been recognized as one of the general principles by the EU law?
Which laws mentioned predate EU law?
What must the adoption of laws which will have legal effect in the EU have?
In what does the doctrine of legitimate expectations have roots?
What is not recognized as one of the general principles of European Union law?
What was first recognized by EU law in the 1970's?
Which laws mentioned not not predate EU law?
What must the adoption of laws which will not have legal effect in the EU have?
How must legislation in member states which implements EU law must not be worded?
Where is the European Court of justice likely to get inspiration from?
The European Court of Justice cannot uphold measures that are incompatible with what?
When were fundamental rights not recognized by the European Court of Justice?
What is not regarded as an integral part of the general principles of EU law?
When can the European Court of Justice uphold measures?
What did the European Court of Justice not find about supply guidelines?
How many original treaties establishing the EU protected fundamental rights?
Which entities were originally concerned with preventing violation of human rights?
When was the European Convention on Human Rights established?
What other entity was established at the same time as the European Convention on Human Rights?
When did the European Council task an entity with drafting a European Charter of Human Rights?
How many original treaties establishing the EU did not protect fundamental rights/
Which entities were not originally concerned with preventing violation of human rights?
When was the European Convention of Human Rights written?
What other entity was not established at the same time as the European Convention of Human Rights?
What did the European Court of Justice not recognize?
When was the Lisbon Treaty established?
What charter has become an important aspect of EU law?
After the Lisbon treaty, the Charter and the Convention now co-exist under what?
What entity enforces the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union?
When was the Lisbon Treaty rejected?
What charter has not become an improtant aspect of Eu law?
What shall not have the same legal value as the Treaties?
What does not co-exist under EU law?
What entity does not enforce the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union?
The Social Chapter is a chapter of what treaty?
What year was the Treaty of Amsterdam created?
When was the basis for the Social Chapter developed?
How many general principles does the Social Charter declare?
How many pieces of legislation has the Social Charter become the basis for?
What treaty is the Social Chapter not a chapter of?
What year was the Treaty of Amsterdam rejected by the European Union law?
What was developed in the 1980's by the social partners representatives?
How many general principles does the the Social Charter not declare?
How many pieces of legislation has the Social Charter not become the basis for?
How many member states adopted the Social Charter in 1989?
Which member state declined to sign the Social Charter?
What title was the Social Charter set to be included into the Maastricht treaty under?
What year was the Maastricht treaty signed?
When was the Social Charter not adopted?
Who did not adopt the Social Charter?
Who agreed to sign the Social Charter and was exempt from the legislation covering Social Charter issues?
Who was the only member state not to veto the Social Charter the Social Charter being included as the Social Charter of Masstricht Treaty?
What title was the Social Charter not set to be included into the Masstricht treaty under?
What lead to the UK to subscribe to the agreement on Social Policy?
When did the UK formally subscribe to the Agreement on Social Policy?
Which directive mentioned was created in 1994?
When was the Parental Leave directive created?
What did the Works Council Directive require?
What did not follow the election of the UK Labour Party to government?
When did the UK not subscribe to the Agreement on the Social Policy?
What did not require workforce consultation in business?
When was the Parental Leave directive rejected?
What has the European Union not undertaken following the adoption of the Social Charter?
Which countries were the European Coal and Steel Community agreement between?
What year was the ECSC agreement established?
What did article 65 of the ECSC ban?
Which article made provisions for concentrations or mergers and the abuse of a dominant position by companies?
When were competition rules included in the Treaty of Rome?
Which countries did not agree upon the European Coal and Steel Community agreement?
What did the agreement not aim to do regarding Germany?
What did the EU members not believe lead to the outbreak of the war?
What did Article 65 not agree upon?
What did Article 66 not make provisions for?
In which article does the Treaty of Lisbon prohibit anti-competitive agreements?
What does Article 102 of the Treaty of Lisbon prohibit?
Which articles state that the member states' rights to deliver public services may not be obstructed?
Which article allows the European Council to govern mergers between firms?
What does the Treaty of Lisbon allow today?
What does Article 102 not prohibit?
What does Article 102 not allow the European Council to do?
Which artictle does not state that the member states' rights to deliver public services may not be obstructed?
What does Article 107 not lay down?
When was the concept of a social market economy introduced into EU law?
How long has free movement and trade been central to European development?
Breaking down barriers to trade and enhancing the free movement of goods is meant to reduce what?
What do the Treaties generally limit?
 What entity has taken the view that the goals of free trade are underpinned by the aims to improve people's well being?
What was not introduced into EU law in 2007?
What was not central to European development since the Treaty of Rome 1957?
What was not originally theorised about a free trade area?
What do the treaties not limit?
What entity has not taken the view that the specific goal of free trade are to underpinned by the general aims of improvement of people's well being?
What helps the process of free movement of goods?
What did did article 34 discriminate against in Procureur du Roi v Dassonville?
Article 34 meant states could be responsible for what?
In which case were French vigilantes sabotaging shipments of Spanish Strawberries?
In Schmidberger v Austria, the Court of Justice came to the conclusion that Austria didn't infringe upon article 34 by failing to ban a what?
What does not help the free movement of goods?
What is not prohibited between member states?
What the the EU not manage from non-member states?
What were states not responsible for in Article 34?
What case were French vigilantes helping shipments of Spanish Strawberries?
What is the minimum percent of alcohol content a German law requires all spirits and liqueurs to have?
Which country did Rewe-Zentrale AG wish to import from?
Which year was the case Commission v Italy that dealt with cocoa products?
All Italian chocolate is made from what alone?
 In the 2009 Commission v Italy, case, the Court of Justice held that an Italian low prohibiting what infringed article 34?
What was maximum percent of alcohol content a German law requires all spirits and liqueurs to have?
Which country dod Rewe-Zentrale AG not wish to import from?
Who accepted the German government's arguments that the measure proportional protected public health?
What did the Court of Justice justify about a low content of vegetable fat?
Which two importers claimed that under a French competition law, they were prevented from selling Picon beer under wholesale price?
The aim of the French competition law was to do what?
In which case did the Court of Justice review Swedish bans on advertising to young children under 12?
Under which Directive did the EU harmonize restrictions on restrictions on marketing and advertising?
Which two importers did not claim that under French competition law, they were prevented from selling Picon beer under wholesale price?
What did the Court of Justice rule fell under TFEU article 34?
What was not the aim of the TFEU article 34 law?
Which case did the Court of Justice not review Swedish bans on advertising to young children und er 12?
What have the Treaties sought to enable since its foundation?
Which entity focused upon the free movement of workers?
What was free movement increasingly based on?
In which case did a German man claim the right to live in Netherlands where he was a volunteer plumber?
What did the Court of Justice say Steymann was entitled to?
What did the Treaties not seek to do since its foundation?
What did the European Community not originally focus on?
What was focused on by the European Community in the 1980's?
Why was free movement not increasingly based on citizenship?
What did the Court of Justice say that Mr. Steymann was not entitled to do?
Which articles of the Free Movement of Workers Regulation set out the primary provisions on equal treatment of workers?
Which Belgian footballer claimed that he should be allowed to transfer from one football club to another when his contract was fulfilled?
What language did the Court of Justice accept to be required to teach in a Dublin college in Groner v Minister for Education?
In which case was a Dutch national not entitled to continue receiving benefits when he moved to Belgium?
In the case Geven v Land Nordrhein-Westfalen, how many hours was the Dutch woman in question working in Germany?
What did not set out the main provision on equal treatment of workers?
What did articles 1 to 4 not generally require of workers?
Which Belgian footballer claimed that he should not be able to transfer from R.F.C. de Liege to USL Dunkerque?
What did most people not require regarding social advantages?
What is the general justificatin for not limiting free movement in TFEUrticles 45(3)?
What has lately been being viewed as a fundamental status of member state nationals by the Court of Justice?
What has having an EU Citizenship increased?
In which case did the Court state that Austria was not allowed to hold places in Austrian schools exclusively for Austrian students?
What has the Court required to be more accessible?
What has not been seen increasingly as a fundamental status of member state nationals by the Court of Justice?
What has having an EU Citizenship decreased?
What case did the Court state that Austria was allowed to hold places in Austrian schools exclusivity for Austrian students?
What has the Court required to be less accessible?
Which Treaty protects the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services?
In Gebhard v Consiglio...Milano, the requirements to be registered in Milan before being able to practice law would be allowed under what conditions?
In which case did the Court of Justice state that refusal to admit a lawyer to the Belgian bar because he did not have Belgian heritage wasn't able to be justified?
Which TFEU article states that states are exempt from infringing on rights of establishment when they exercise official authority?
In which case did the Court of Justice hold that requiring Italian lawyers to comply with maximum tariffs unless there was an agreement with a client was not a restriction?
What do workers generally have in the market?
What does the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union not protect?
Who does not have the right to set up an enterprise without unjustified restrictions?
Who did the Court of Justice say could help the freedom of establishment?
What did the Grand Chamber of the Court of Justice say the Commission had proven?
In which year did a toxic waste spill from a European ship prompt the Commission to look into legislation against waste?
At the time, countries such as Spain didn't have a crime against what?
When did the Court of Justice rule that the Commission could only propose that there must be some criminal sanctions?
When was the competence for the Union to create criminal sentences for ecological crimes contested?
What year did a toxic waste spill from an American ship prompt the Commission to look into legislation against waste?
What did countries such as Spain have a crime against?
What did Franco Frattini, the Justice, Freedom and Security Commissioner, and Dimas reject?
When did the Court of Justice deny that the Commission could only propose that there must some criminal sanctions?
The freedom to provide services under TFEU article 56 applies to who?
Why was the Dutch lawyer who moved to Belgium while advising a client in a social society case told he couldn't continue?
What did the Court of Justice reason were controlled in all member states in Josemans v Burgemeester van Maastricht?
What did the Dutch health authorities regard as unnecessary in Geraets-Smits v Stichting Ziekenfonds?
Who does the TFEU article 56 not apply to?
Why could a Dutch lawyer who moved to Belgium give legal advice?
What does not fall outside the scope of article 56 according to the Court of Justice?
What did Dutch health authorities regard as necessary?
What should fall under article 56 according to several governments?
Which newspaper's parent company could not evade tax by shifting its residence to the Netherlands?
How much capital did UK law require to start a company?
How much capital did Danish law require to start a company?
What could justify restrictions on freedom of establishment?
In which case did the Court of Justice hold that a German court couldn't deny a Dutch building company the right to enforce a contract based in Germany?
Who riled that member stated could not restrict a company from moving its seat of business without infringing TFEU article 49?
Who could evade taxes by shifting its resident to the Netherlands?
Why did the UK have to justify its actions?
How much capital did the UK not require to start a company?
How much did Denmark not require to start a company?
Which name is also used to describe the Amazon rainforest in English?
How many square kilometers of rainforest is covered in the basin?
How many nations control this region in total?
How many nations contain "Amazonas" in their names?
What percentage does the Amazon represents in rainforests on the planet?
What is the Dutch word for the Amazon rainforest?
What rainforest covers the majority of the Amazon basin in South America?
In what country can most of the Amazon rainforest be found?
The Amazon rainforest makes up what amount of Earth's rainforests?
How many species of trees can be found in the Amazon rainforest?
What kind of forest is the Amazon rainforest?
How many square kilometers is the Amazon Basin?
How many nations are within the Amazon Basin?
Which nation contains the majority of the amazon forest?
What is the estimate for the amount of tree species in the amazon tropical rain forest?
Amazonia or the Amazon jungle are no longer used to refer to what?
What covers most of the Amazon basin of Central America?
201,000,000 sq mi of rainforest cover what?
Nineteen nations have what in this region?
The Amazon represents less than half of the planets remaining what?
Which type of climate may have allowed the rainforest to spread across the continent?
What has allowed for the Savanna region to expand into the tropics?
During what time did the rainforest spanned a narrow band? 
When did it retract to a inland formation?
Did the rainforest managed to thrive during the glacial periods? 
 What may have caused rainforests to grow across South America?
How many degrees south did the Amazon rainforest reach from 66-34 Mya?
What has caused savanna regions to grow into the South American tropics in the last 34 million years?
During which period in history was the Amazon rainforest a narrow band of forest?
What did the Amazon rainforest do during the Middle Miocene?
What extinction event might have created some conditions allowing the expansion of the amazon rainforest?
Beginning how many years ago did the amazon rainforest extend 45 degrees south?
After the Oligocene period, under what period did the amazon rainforest begin to expand?
The amazon rainforest became a mostly inland forest around which global event?
Savannah areas expanded over the last how many years?
What type of climate stop reinforced from spreading across the continent?
The extinction of what led to the decline of rainforests?
What extended as far north as 45°?
Climate fluctuations have stopped the savanna from doing what?
The rain force failed to thrive during what periods?
In which point did the drainage basin of the Amazon split?
In which direction did the water on the eastern side flow?
What is the name of the basin that was created from a enclosed lake?
How long ago was it when the water broke through the Purus Arch?
Where did it join in the direction of its flow?
When was the drainage basin of the Amazon believed to have split in the middle of South America?
Where did water to the east of the Amazon drainage basin flow towards?
Where did water to the west of the Amazon drainage basin flow towards?
What did water that flowed towards the Pacific have to flow across during the mid-Eocene?
What basin was formed when the Andes Mountains rose?
During what period the drainage basin of the Amazon likely split?
Near where in the continent is it believed that the Amazon basin split?
Where did water on the eastern side of the amazon basin travel after the split?
Where did the water in the Amazon Basin flow towards when moving west?
What is the lake known as which was created by the rise of the Andes Mountains?
What split the Amazon drainage basin along the northern part of the continent?
Water on the eastern side float away from what ocean?
Water on the west side flowed below the basin and towards which ocean?
The Rocky Mountains enclosed a late creating what basing?
Water from broke through and joined the westward flow to the Pacific?
What does LGM stands for?
What did the analysis from the sediment deposits indicate? 
What are some of scientists arguments? 
How has this debate been proven?
How are the explanations supported?
There have been major changes in Amazon rainforest vegetation over the last how many years?
What caused changes in the Amazon rainforest vegetation?
What has been analyzed to compare Amazon rainfall in the past and present?
What has the lower rainfall in the Amazon during the LGM been attributed to?
Many changes in the vegetation of the amazon rainforest took place since the  Last Glacial Maximum, which was how many years ago?
Analysis of what kind of deposits from the Amazon Fan indicates a change in rainfall in the Amazon basin?
Changes in rainfall reduced what kind of vegetation cover in the Amazon basin?
Scientists disagree with how the Amazon rainforest changed over time with some arguing that it was reduced to isolated refugia seperated by what?
Why is it difficult to resolve disagreements about the changes in the Amazon rainforest?
There have been insignificant changes in the Amazon rain forest vegetation through the last what
What was higher during the LGM than the present?
What has been easily proven about the rain forest
Data sampling strongly supports that what remained largely intact??
What is the name of the satellite that measured the amount of dust?
How many tons of dust are blown from the Sahara each year?
How many miles does the dust travels over the Atlantic Ocean?
Which basin does the dust falls over into?
How many tons of dust remains in the air?
What tool has measured the amount of dust that travels from the Sahara to the Amazon?
How much dust is blown out of the Sahara each year?
How much Saharan dust falls over the Amazon basin each year?
How much Saharan dust remains in the air over the Amazon each year?
How much Saharan dust is blown and falls upon the Caribbean Sea each year?
A satellite that measured the amount of dust going to the Amazon was named what?
What organization runs the satellite that measured dust that landed on the Amazon?
How much windblown dust leaves the Sahara each year?
How many miles across the Atlantic Ocean does Saharan dust travel?
How many tons of Saharan dust falls on the Amazon Basin each year?
What is the name of the satellite that measured the amount of vegetation from the so hard to the Amazon?
How many tons of dust are blown from the rain forest each year?
How many miles is a dust travel over the Pacific?
How much dust is blown into the sonar every year
48 million tons of dust are blown onto what C every year?
What is the name of the book written by Archeologist Betty Meggers?
What is the maximum square miles did Betty Meggers claim that can be sustained in the rainforest? 
What would be needed to host a larger population?
Which findings suggested that the region was densely populated? 
How many people may have lived in the Amazon region during AD 1500?
What feature of the Amazon made people believe it couldn't have many inhabitants?
What well-known archeologist believed the Amazon didn't have many inhabitants?
How many inhabitants did Betty Meggers believe could occupy each square kilometre of the Amazon?
In what book did Betty Meggers describe the idea of the Amazon being sparsely populated?
Which archaeologist proposed the idea that the Amazon rainforest couldn't sustain large populations? 
Which book discussed the theory about low populations in the Amazon rainforest?
What was the theorized maximum population density per square kilometre for the Amazon rainforest?
In 1500 AD how many people were believed to have lived in the Amazon region?
In the 1980s what was the population of the amazon region?
What is the name of the book edited by archaeologist Betty Meggers?
For a long time it was believed that what was heavily populated?
Who claimed that only two inhabitants per square kilometer could be sustained in the rain forest?
Betty Meggers said that hunting was needed to support a large population where?
More than 200,000 people lived in a rain forest during what decade?
Who was the first European to travel the Amazon River?
During what time did civilization in the Amazon was flourishing when Orellana made his observations?
What was believed to be the cause of devastation to the civilization?
How long since it's been that geoglyphs were first discovered on deforested land?
What time period did the geoglyphs date back to?
Who was the first European to travel the entire length of the Amazon River?
In what year did the first European travel the entire length of the Amazon River?
Geoglyphs dating to what period were found in deforested land along the Amazon River?
Who is given credit for discovering geoglyphs along the Amazon River?
For how many years was evidence shown that humans shaped the the Amazon?
Who was the first American to travel to Amazon River
Who made exaggerated claims about a complex civilization in the Amazon?
In the 1540s what region lacked a complex civilization?
What do diseases from Africa cause?
The BBC's documentary presented evidence that the Amazon had been a pristine wilderness for at least how long?
What is terra preta called?
How much is terra preta distributed over the Amazon forest?
What did the development of this fertile soil provide in hostile environment?
In which region tribe were large settlements discovered?
Who discovered this and where did they come from?
What type of soil is considered a product of soil management by indigenous peoples in the Amazon Forest?
The development of Terra Preta allowed for what to happen in the Amazon Forest?
In lands attributed to what tribe are found remains of large settlements?
Who is credited with finding evidence of large settlements in the Amazon forest?
Evidence for what types of structures were found in 2003?
Terra preta is distributor over a small area of what?
What is a product of foreign soil management?
Only small portions of the Amazon forest are a result of what?
In 2000 who found evidence of a large settlement in the Amazon rain forest?
The poor soil found over much of the Amazon force is a result of what?
How many species of insects are known in the region?
What portion of bird species make up the world's total live in the rainforest?
How many plant species make up the total in the rainforest?
What is the total make up of fish species living in the Amazon?
How many invertebrate species are known in Brazil alone? 
The Amazon region is home to how many species of insect?
How many species of bird and mammals are there in the Amazon region?
How many plant species are estimated to be in the Amazon region?
How many reptiles have been discovered in the Amazon region?
What amount of bird species on earth are found in the Amazon rainforest?
The region is home to 25 million what?
One in seven of the worlds bird species live where?
Between 96,660 and 128,843 vertebrate species live where?
The Amazon rivers and streams contain how many reptiles?
How many kilometers of acres of the Ecuadorian rainforest is supported?
How many tree species are in the rainforest?
How many tons of living plants are in the rainforest?
What is the average plant biosmass?
What is the number of plant species in economics and social interest?
Where does the Amazon region rate among the entire earth for its amount of biodiversity?
How many tree species were found in one square kilometer of Ecuadorian rainforest in 2001?
How many tons of live plants were found to live in one square kilometer of the Amazon rainforest in 1999?
What is the average weight of the biomass per hectare in the Amazon?
How many plant species are of interest to society and manufacturers exist in the amazon rainforest?
The biodiversity of what is the lowest on earth?
What rain forced supports more than 11,003 species
A 1999 study found that 100 km² of rain forest contain how many living plants?
4380 species of what have been registered?
There there are very few what remain to be discovered?
Which animal that lives in the Amazon river may produce a deadly shock?
Large predators of the Amazon rainforest include the jaguar, cougar, and anaconda, what is one other example?
What fish living in the Amazon river is known to bit humans?
What are dart frogs are known to secrete?
What type of bat that lives in the Amazon rainforest can spread rabies?
Which animal living in the Amazon River produces a mild shock?
Among the smallest predatory creatures are the black Caiman and what?
Piranha did not actually do what?
Various species of lizards secrete what?
Vampire bats do not actually spread what?
What is the process of removing trees from a forest known as?
Acessing the Amazon rainforest was restricted before what era?
What method was used to clear forest for crop cultivation in the amazon forest?
What are two factors that made it difficult for colonists to the Amazon forest to survive?
What is notable about the Amazon forest when it is seen from space?
The process of growing more trees in the forest is known as what?
Assessing the Amazon rain forest was restricted after what era?
Prior to 1960 what method was used to clear forest?
What is productive for a long period of time in the Amazon?
Areas of heavy forest are visible to the naked eye from where?
How many square kilometres of the Amazon forest was lost by 1991?
In the year 2000 how many square kilometres of the Amazon forest had been lost?
What is most of the cleared land in the Amazon region used for?
Where is Brazil ranked globally in soybean production?
What percentage of the land cleared in the Amazon is used for growing livestock?
41,500 square kilometres of Amazon force were lost between what years?
What is the second smallest global producer of soybean?
91% of what is used for farming?
Who showed that blogging increases precipitation in the Amazon?
Highways built in the Amazon rainforest were built primarily for what kind of farmers?
What did creating highways in the Amazon rainforest lead to?
The rate of clearing of forest from 2000 to 2005 was how many square miles per year?
How much higher was the rate of deforestation in 2000, to 2005 compared to 1995 to 2000?
What happened to the rate of deforestation in the Amazon region of Brazil between 2004 and 2014?
What type of farmers have opposed many of the transportation projects in the Amazon?
What was unsuccessful in opening the rain forced Emily to decrease settlement?
The deforestation decreased by 18% during what years?
deforestation increased in Brazil during what years?
What type of projects are widely supported?
What are environmentalists concerned about losing in the Amazon forest?
The loss of biodiversity may be the result of what, according to environmentalists?
What are environmentalists concerned about having released from the Amazon region?
What amount of the worlds carbon is stored in the Amazon forest?
How many metric tons of carbon are believed to be stored in the Amazon forest?
Loss of biodiversity is not a concern of what?
Release of carbon contained in vegetation will slow down what?
The Amazon forest stores what percentage of the world's carbon dioxide
How many metric tons of carbon are believed to be released from the Amazon rain forest each year?
What change in conditions may make the Amazon rainforest unsustainable?
A complete loss of rainforest cover may be caused by what type of emissions?
If one computer model turns out correct, by what year would there be a nearly complete loss of rainforest in the Amazon basin?
How long may the Amazon rainforest be threatened, according to some computer models?
What are the main threats facing the Amazon rainforest in the current century?
Increased rainfall and decreased temperatures may make what unsustainable?
A decrease in greenhouse gases may lead to a complete loss of what?
Some computer models suggest the rain forest will become threatened after what?
Hunting and population are the main threats facing what?
Simulation of what is consistent across different models?
What kind of territories are being destroyed by ecocide in the Amazon?
What type of conservation effort is gaining attention in the Amazon?
Indigenous territories are largely being destroyed in what two ways?
The Peruvian Amazon indigienous people are one group struggling in the Amazon, what is another group?
There is growing interest in what indigenous group in the Amazon?
Modern settlements continue to be destroyed by what?
Community-based conservation efforts are being replaced where
The Peruvian Amazon indigenous people and what other group continue to grow in the Amazon?
Where has a relationship between humans gained increased attention?
Indigenous territories are being preserved through what type of conservation efforts?
What kind of sending technology is being used to protect tribal lands in the Amazon?
What tribe uses GPS devices to map lands?
Tribal members living in the rainforests of what region are using Google Earth?
What do tribes use Google Earth and GPS for?
Why do some tribes use remote sensing technology?
On-site sensing is being used by indigenous tribes for what
What makes it easier for the government to target tribal territories?
Most what in the Amazon have clearly defined boundaries?
Commercial ventures are using handheld GPS and Google maps to undermine the indigenous tribes what??
Who is drawing maps of their inset ancestral lands?
Classifying the stages of what is important to mapping aspects of the Amazon?
The classification of aspects of the Amazon forest is important for mapping what type of emission?
Who organized the trees of the Amazon into four categories?
In what year did one individual suggest classifying the trees of the Amazon into four categories?
What type of radar was used to classify trees into four categories?
The classification of tree decay is important to what?
Who organized the trees of the world into four categories?
What type of radar was used to classify the forest by plant type?
What was used to classify the Amazon population into four categories
What was classified in 2008?
In what year did the Amazon experience its worst drought of recent history?
What organization predicted that the Amazon forest could survive only three years of drought?
What organization argued that drought, among other effects, could cause the Amazon forest to reach a "tipping point?"
Along with drought, what is one other factor that is pushing the Amazon rainforest towards a tipping point?
What might the Amazon forest become if it passes the tipping point and starts to die?
In what year did the Amazon basin experience is worst drought in 1000 years?
What organization predicted that the Amazon force could survive more than three years of drought
Drought and overpopulation are pushing to the force towards what?
The rain forest died there would be little effect on what?
Savanna and desert were replaced by what in the Amazon?
In what year did the Amazon experience a drought that may have been more extreme than in 2005?
How many square miles large was the region impacted by the 2010 drought?
How many areas were impacted by the the death of vegetation in the 2010 drought?
The southern part of the Amazon forest was mainly impacted by drought in what year?
How many tons of carbon are absorbed the Amazon in a typical year?
Amazon rain forest experienced another mild drought in what year
The Amazon releases how much carbon dioxide each year?
The 2010 drought had three what were vegetation increased?
In 2005 the force absorbed how much carbon dioxide?
In 2010 the force absorbed 8 Gt of what
What is a ctenophora?
What does the ctenophora use to swim?
What does ctenophora use for digestion and respiration?
How large can ctenophora grow?
What is the most distinctive feature of ctenophora?
What are ctenophora commonly known as?
How big can ctenophora grow?
What does ctenophora rely on for digestion and respiration?
What does ctenophora mean in Greek?
Where do ctenophora live?
What are cnidarians commonly called?
What is the most distinctive feature of cnidarians?
What do cnidarians use their combs for?
How are groups of cillia classified due to increasing awareness of differences?
How many types of cnidarians have been discovered  worldwide?
How many species of Ctenophora have been validated?
What are the little tentacles that cydippids have called?
How much food does a ctenophora eat in a day?
What do coastal beroids not have that other ctenophora have?
What does coastal beriods use as teeth?
How much do ctenophore eat in a day?
What are the small tentacles on Cydippids called?
What do Beriods use as teeth?
What do Cydippids use to capture their prey?
How many different species of ctenohore are there?
How do rotifers act as when looking for a meal?
How much is a rotifer able to eat in one day?
How many species of rotifers have been discovered?
How many species of rotifers are yet to be named?
What do some species of rotifers do instead of being predators?
What is unique about  a hermaphrodite?
What can a simultaneous hermaphrodite do?
What type of hermaphrodite produces egg and sperm at different times?
Which species eggs are fertilized and kept inside the parents body until hatched?
What causes the population of ctenophora to grow at an explosive rate?
What is a hermaphrodite?
What is unique about  simultaneous hermaphrodites?
What is a trait of sequential hermaphrodites?
Which group keep the eggs are fertilized and kept inside the parent's body until they hatch?
Which group has young that are born with no tentacles and a large mouth?
How do plankton reproduce?
How do plankton fertilize their eggs?
What happens to plankton when they mature?
When are some juvenile plankton able to do before becoming an adult?
How quickly do plankton populations grow due to hermaphrodism and early reproduction?
What does the Beroe eat? 
What was introduces into the Black Sea?
What does  mnemiopsis eat?
Where do ctenophores be found in large numbers?
Where can ctenophores be found in large amounts?
What are phytoplankton?
What ctenophore was accidentally introduced into The Black Sea?
What event was blamed on the introduction of mnemiopsis into The Black Sea?
What was done to counteract the overpopulation of mnemiopsis in The Black Sea?
When are copepod populations abundant?
What areas do copepods like to live?
How common are copepods in other places?
What sea have copepods accidentially been released into?
What is one thing that copepods like to eat?
When did the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction happen?
Evidence indicates that Cydippids are not what?
How old are the fossils found that represent ctenophhores ?
What were the fossils that were found to represent ctenphores missing that current ctenphora have?
Fossils found that were believed to be ctenophores were how old?
What event happened 66 million years ago?
Cypiddids are not what?
What do current ctenophores have that fossils found did not have?
In what time period were lagerstatten first found?
What do molecular biologists believe lagerstatten are closely related to?
What characteristics did the common ancestor of lagerstatten have?
After what event are lagerstatten thought to have appeared?
What are lagerstatten considered to be descendants of?
Jellyfish ans sea anemones belong to what phylum?
What makes ctenophores different from all other animals?
Ctenophora are less complex than which other phylum?
Which phylum is more complex than sponges?
What does ctenophore use to capture prey?
Jellyfish and sea anemones belong to which group/
What do ctenophores have that no other animals have?
What do ctenophore use to capture their prey?
Which two groups have cells bound by inter-cell connections and membranes, muscles, a nervous system and sensory organs?
Ctenophores are less complex than what other group?
What connections bind sponge cells?
What kind of organs do some sponges have?
What distinguishes sponges from all other animals?
What do sponges use their colloblasts to catch?
What sticky cells used to capture prey are missing from a few sponge species?
What is the jelly-like susbtance called?
Ctenophores and cnidarians are classified as what?
Which group has two layers of cells with a middle layer of mesoglea?
Ctenophores, cnidarians and what other group are labelled diploblastic?
Sponges have three main cell layers and no what?
Where does the jelly-like layer come from in complex animals?
What are more complex animals labeled when they have a jelly-like layer?
What is the lack of a  jelly-like layer also called when in a complex animal?
How many layers of cells with a sandwiched jelly-like layer do complex animals have?
What are the hairs on ctenophores called?
What are cilia used for?
Comb like bands of cilia are called what?
What does ctenophore mean in Greek?
How many types of cilia are there?
How long can the cillia grow on ctenophores?
What do cilia use their bodies for?
What are the bodies of cilia also called?
What kind of animals are cilia considered?
Which cidippid is used as a description on ctenophores in most textbooks?
Which group of ctenophore are are hardest to study?
Why are coastal species tough?
Which ctenophora have been studies the most?
What kind of sediment particles are there?
In what areas are sediment particles typically found?
What usually carries sediment particles from one place to another?
What are three types of sediment partilces that have been found?
How many types of sediment particles have gained the most attention recently?
The inside of a ctenophore is lined with what?
What do photocytes produce?
What is the throat called?
What does the internal cavity contain?
What are the most active parts of ctenophora?
What are the tentacles lined with?
What can the mesoglea be closed by?
What is the mesoglea situated along the underside of?
What does the mesoglea terminate into?
Where is the mesoglea different in other parts of the canal system?
What are the eight comb rows on the outer surface called?
Combs are called what?
What does the 9 +3 pattern of cilia thought to do?
What direction do ctenophore swim?
Cilia can g ow up too what length?
What are flagella also called?
How many types of flagella are there?
To what length can flagella grow to?
What direction do cilia usually swim?
What kind of behavior are cilia participating in when they reverse direction with their flagella?
How do ctenophores control buoyancy?
Ciliary rosettes pump water into what to control buoyancy?
What does pumping water into the mesoglea do?
What does the ciliary rosettes do to decease bulk and increase density?
How do mesoglea control how brackish body fluids are?
What do mesoglea adapt to when relying on brackish water?
What is volume normally as concentrated as?
What does pumping in regular seawater do to  its bulk?
Why do do ciliary rosettes need to decrease density in seawater?
What is the largest sensory feature of the ctenophora?
Where is the aboral organ located?
What protects the statocyst?
What is the main component of the aboral organ?
What is a statocyst?
What is the largest feature in the mouth?
What is the nervous system protected by?
What is the nervous system made up of?
What does the cilia try to keep the transparent dome resting on?
What determines whether the tentacles are on the balancers or not?
What is the common coastal pleurobrachia called?
What does the pleurobrachia have on opposite sides of its body?
Cydippid are typically what shape?
The long tentacles on the pleurbrachia are protected by what?
Where is the mouth located on the pleuobrachia located?
What is the mouth of a pleuobrachia kept in?
What can the pleuobrachia do with its mouth when its in the way?
What happens to some sheaths on cydippids to change their size?
Are sheaths wider or narrower in size near the mouth?
What is another name for the sheath the mouth can be withdrawn to?
What are the tentacles of cydipped ctenophores are usually fringed with?
What are colloblasts?
What makes the tentilla of euplokamis different from other cysippids?
How many types of movements do euplokamis tentilla have?
What does the euplokamis use the three types of movement for?
What is the epidermis fringed with?
What shape are tentilla typically?
How many components do tentilla have?
What does the domed head of the tentilla have?
What do the vesticles on tentilla contain?
How many rows of combs are there?
Where are the rows of combs located?
How are the combs spaced?
What runs from the balancer in the statocyst to the comb rows?
How many rows of statocysts are there?
What kind of rhythm do the statocysts have?
How are the statocysts spaced?
What are the statocysts alligned in when being evenly spaced?
What does the statocyst split to connect with?
What does the lobata have pair of?
What are auricles?
How many auricles do most species have?
What do the auricles do?
What do lobates feed on?
How many lobes do plankton have?
How often do plankton need to feed?
What are lobata in plankton?
How many auricles do plankton have?
What do the tentacles on plankton do to help them find prey?
What does the bathocyroe and ocyropsis do to escape danger?
What happens when bathocyroe and ocyropsis clap their lobes together?
The movements of the lobates combs are controlled by what?
Cydippids combs are controlled by what?
How many lobes do cilia have?
How are most cilia when moving through the water?
What kind of auricles do cilia have?
How do cilia and aboral escape from danger?
What happens when cilia and arbol clap their lobes?
Beroida are known by what other name?
What group has no feeding appendages?
Some species of beroe have a pair of strips of adhesive cells on the stomach wall. What does it do?
What does the beroe do when pursuing prey?
What does the beroida have instead of feeding appendages?
What is one thing cilia don't have?
What do ephithelial cells fill most of in the Nuda?
What do epithelial cells have at the oral end?
What are epithelial cells able do do if prey is too large to swallow?
What does the large pharynx do in the Beroe when its not feeding?
Which species are ribbon-shaped planktonic animals?
What are cestida called?
How do cestids swim?
What is the largest ctenophore?
Which species moves by a darting motion?
How long is the Aboral?
How does the Aboral move?
What is another name for the Aboral?
What shape does the Aboral usually have?
Where is the mouth located on an Aboral?
What do most platyctenida have on their aboral surface?
What do platyctenida use their pharynx for?
What do all but one platycenida species lack?
Where do platycenida live?
What does the Aboral use its comb rows as?
What body shape does the Aboral have?
How many tentacles does the Aboral have on its pharynx?
What do all but one kind of Aboral lack?
Where do Aboral usually live?
How are eggs and sperm released?
How do platyctenids reproduce?
What genus has self-fertilization been seen?
Where are the gonads located?
Is fertilization  internal or exeternal in most species?
What do most species of the genus Ocryopsis function as at the same time?
In what kind of chamber do species in the genus Ocryopsis keep their eggs until they hatch?
What is released by pores in the comb rows?
What has sometimes been seen in species of the genus Ocryopsis?
What are most species of the genus Ocryopsis thought to be?
Juvenile and adult  beroe lack what?
Where do juvenile platyctenids live?
When do juvenile develop into adults?
Juvenile platyctenids act like what?
Which genus lack tentacles and sheaths?
How does the larvae develop?
What do bottom-dwelling platyctenids usually lack like the adults?
What do the juveniles behave like in the genus Beroe?
What does the genus Beroe usually live among as juveniles?
What kind of area do the genus Beroe juveniles live in that's different than their parents?
What do bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis and eurhamphaea vexilligera have in common?
When do bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis and eurhamphaea vexilligera  excrete secretions?
What are the secretions commonly called?
Do adults or juveniles secretions luminesce brighter?
What do Bathyctena chuni, Euplokamis stationis and Euhamphaea veilligera produce only when they change color?
Are most ctenophores the same or a different color?
What happens to ocean water when it absorbs certain wavelengths?
What does ocean water do to luminescence from certain animals?
What has been proven is released by ctenophores becaue of their environment?
Are ctenophores predators, vegetarian or parasitic?
Haeckelia prey mostly on what animal?
What happens to the jellyfish nematocysts when they are eaten by the haeckelia?
What does the bolinopsis generally eat?
What is the name of the two-tentacled cydippid that feedsentirely on salps called?
How much food can crustacean larvae eat per day?
What do zooplankton usually prey on?
What do Members of the genus Haeckelia usually capture the adult version of?
What smaller weaker swimmers do amphipods feed on?
What does Pleurobrachia incorporate into their own tentacles?
Why was it thought that  ctenophores were a poor diet for other animals?
What is the oncorhynchus also called?
What do beroids typically eat?
Where have herbivorous fishes been seen feeding on gelatinous zooplankton?
Turtles and jellyfish can eat large quantities of what?
What did salmon used to be regarded as in marine food chains?
Where is it hard to identify the remains of salmon in?
How quickly do shrimp digest ctenophores as compared to other prey?
What kind of diet can salmon provide to other predators?
What kind of populations can be wiped out temporarily by shrimp?
What is blamed for causing the sharp drop in fish catches in the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?
How was the ctenophore mnemiopsis leidyi introduced into The Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?
When was ctenophore mnemiopsis leidyi introduced into The Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?
How was the population of mnemiopsis in The black Sea and the Sea of Azov brought under control?
How does cooling of the local environment affect the mnemiopsis?
When were fish larvae introduced into the Black Sea accidentally?
What other sea had fish larvae accidentially introduced into it?
How did fish larvae accidentally get introduced into the two bodies of water?
What has the fish larvae caused a sharp drop in?
How quickly can fish larvae grow?
Why are ctenophores extremely rare as fossils?
Ediacaran eoandromeda can be regarded to represent what?
What was the period called that was 505 million years ago?
How many species were found in the Burgess Shale?
What did the  fossils found in the Burgess Shale lack?
When did the first tentacles form on ctenophores?
How many prominent tentacles were found 1996?
How long ago was the Ediacaran period?
What kind of structures are typical in living lagerstatten?
In what year was the Edicaran Eoandromeda named?
How old were the fossils found in China?
What type of fossils were found in China?
Which genus is considered the "aunt" of ctenophores?
Stromatoveris is similair to which genus?
Vendobionta lived during which period?
What genus is considered the aunt of Vendobionta?
What period did the emergence of feeding mechanisms come from?
What did Simon Conway find on the branches of lagerstatte?
What did Vendobionta's descendants become?
What did Vendobionta's descendants change their cilia to?
Recent studies believe  that ctenophores are the sister lineage to what?
What do some researchers believe is the earliest-diverging animal phylum is?
What do all other animal phyla lack?
How do other researchers believe Porifera evolved and developed its neural cells?
What is Cnidaria sometimes categorized as instead of Ctenophora?
What is the understanding of neural and muscle cell types important to our understanding of?
What has the presence of hox genes been the focus of for many years?
Which genus of ctenophores does not have cydipped-like larvae?
A molecular phylogeny analysis confirmed that cydippid are not what?
When was the Cretaceous-Paleogen extinction occur?
Who did a morphologically analysis in 1985 that concluded cydippids are not monophyletic?
What was concluded by Richard Harbison in 2001 about beroids?
What are beroids more similar to than other bilaterians?
In what time period did the Lobata, Cestida and Thalassocalycida become extinct?
What kind of analysis did Harbison conclude in 2001 about the Lobata?
How many species of Cestida were found in 1985?
Which city is the fifth-largest city in California?
How far is Fresno from Los Angeles?
What does the name Fresno mean in Spanish?
What is featured on the city of Fresno's city flag?
How do you pronounce Fresno?
What is the population of Los Angeles?
What does Sacramento mean in Spanish?
How large is the San Joaquin Valley?
What valley is Los Angeles located in?
Fresno is the capital of what state?
The Central Pacific Railroad established a station for its new line in what year?
What were the reasons why residents moved to the town of Fresno Station?
In what year did Fresno become an incorporated city?
How many streetcars did the Fresno Traction Company operate in 1931?
What entity sparked the growth of Fresno Station?
When was the Central Pacific Railroad founded?
When did Millerton residents move out of Fresno?
How long was the Southern Pacific line?
When did the Fresno Traction Company come to Fresno?
Where did Fresno residents move to during the flooding?
In 1940, what percentage of the population in Fresno was Asian?
What ethnic neighborhood in Fresno had primarily Japanese residents in 1940?
In 1942, what was North Fresno previously called?
What was the Pinedale Assembly Center?
What was the Fresno Fairgrounds used as?
What was the white population in 1942 in Fresno?
What percentage of Pinedale is black?
What year was Chinatown founded?
What area of Fresno were the Fresno Fairgrounds located in?
What area was renamed Pinedale?
What new product did Bank of America introduce in 1958?
What was the name of the first successful credit card?
What did the BankAmericard allow customers do to that they couldn't do with previous financial instruments?
In what year did BankAmericard change its name?
What present-day company did BankAmericard turn into?
What month did the BankAmericard creator resign?
What was the original name of the BankAmericard?
The BankAmericard could be used across many merchants but could not do what?
What year did the BankAmericard become successful?
Where is Visa Inc. located?
Who wrote "Walking in Fresno?"
Who recorded "Walking in Fresno?"
In what town did Bill Aiken grow up?
On what show did Bill Aiken make is television debut?
Who was Bill Aiken's adopted mother?
What song did Bob Gallion write?
What was Bill Aken's ethnicity?
Who owned the WWVA Jamboree?
What show did Lupe Mayorga star in?
What singer was in the Hall of Fame?
How many large public parks does Fresno have?
Which park is home to the Fresno Chafffee Zoo?
Which park is home to the Kearney Mansion?
Which is one of the park features located in North Fresno?
Which park hosts the largest Civil War reenactment on the west coast?
What type of garden does Roeding Park have?
Which park is the smallest?
What is the largest Mansion in the west coast?
How long are the trails in Roeding Park?
The two city limits parks are located in which direction?
During what period did downtown Fresno thrive?
What were two of Fresno's most beautiful architectural buildings that are now demolished?
What former building is currently known as Grand 1401?
Which one of Fresno's hotels burned down?
When was the Fresno County Courthouse demolished?
What is the Pacific Southwest Building currently known as?
What happened to the Bank of Italy Building?
What was the Grand 1401 building renamed as?
What is the name of the hotel that was renamed the Grand 1401? 
In what year did Fresno get its first pedestrian mall?
What was the pedestrian mall renamed?
Which artist has a piece of his artwork located at the Fulton Mall?
After reopening, where will the art pieces be located after restoration?
What feature will enrich the the pedestrian friendly environment after restoration?
When did Fulton Street become the main financial district?
How large is the Pierre-Auguste Renoir piece?
What was Fulton Mall renamed as?
28' is the minimum size of what?
What side of the street will the art pieces be on?
Where is the neighborhood of Sunnyside located in Fresno?
What are the two major thoroughfares of Sunnyside?
When was most of Sunnside developed?
Where is the home of the Sunnyside Country Club?
Who designed the golf course located at the Sunnyside Country Club?
Who designed Sunnyside?
What decade was the country club built in?
What avenue is to the west of the golf course?
Kings Canyon Avenue is on the southeast side of what?
Chestnut Avenue goes through what?
The Tower District is centered around which historic theatre?
When was the Tower Theatre built?
From what landmark within Fresno does the Tower Theatre get its name?
What was the original name of California State University at Fresno?
How far is Fresno City College from the Tower District?
When was the landmark water tower built?
Fresno City College is located at what two avenues?
How many miles north of downtown Fresno is the Tower District neighborhood?
When was the Fresno Normal School stated?
What was the California State University renamed as?
During what period did the Tower Theatre re-open?
After its re-opening, which types of movies did the Tower Theatre show?
In what year did Roger Rocka's Dinner Theater & Good Company Players open?
Where is Audra McDonald from?
Which two leading roles did Audra McDonald perform when she was in high school?
When was the Tower Theater closed?
What did Roger Rocka's Dinner Theater & Good Company Players show?
What year did Audra McDonald perform the roles of Evita and The Wiz?
What type of award did Roger Rocka win?
Who reopened Tower Theatre?
What type of theater do the neighborhoods feature?
How far apart are some of the neighborhood's features?
What area has become attractive for restaurants?
Which Fresno district is the center for the LGBT community?
Which district in Fresno is known as the center for the heavy metal community?
How long is Olive Avenue?
What type of nightclubs does Fresno have?
What was Tower District known for before the renewal?
What communities avoid Tower District?
What type of homes is Fresno known for?
What types of houses are designed by Fresno architects?
Does the residential architecture of the Tower District compare or contrast with other part of Fresno?
How recently has the homes in Fresno been restored?
Who designed the Mission Revival Style architecture?
What area is the Tower District similar to in architecture?
When did Hilliard, Taylor, and Wheeler work?
Are California Bungalows located in the north or east?
Who restored the Bungalows?
Which boulevard can you find many majestic homes in the area?
Who mapped the Alta Vista Tract?
In what year did developers Billings & Meyering acquire the Alta Vista Tract?
How many homes did the Alta Vista Tract have five years after Billings & Meyering acquired it?
Which company provided streetcar connections between downtown and the hospital?
Who planted the alfalfa fields?
Who did the City grant the property to in 1912?
How many homes did the Pacific Improvement Corporation build?
What stalled the development of houses?
When did the Fresno Traction Company begin to provide streetcar connections?
What is another name for the west side of Fresno?
In which direction does the west side of Fresno neighborhood lie to the 99 freeway?
The west side of Fresno is the center of which ethnic community?
What are the two principal Asian-American groups living in the west side neighborhood of Fresno?
Which neighborhood lies west of the 41 freeway?
What is west of the West Side?
What divides Downtown Fresno?
What is ethnic community is traditionally found Downtown?
What specific groups are found within the Mexican-American population?
What is significant about the age of Downtown Fresno?
Who is Kearney Boulevard named after?
What kinds of trees is Kearney Boulevard lined with?
Between which two streets along Kearney Boulevard were wealthy African-Americans at one time residing?
What was the name given to a section of Kearney Boulevard in efforts to change the areas image?
What area of Brookhaven is still known for its high levels of crime?
Whos is Kerman, California named after?
How long is Fresno Street?
Who preferred the Brookhaven section?
Who named Thorne Ave?
What gang entered the West Side in 2008?
When were the public housing developments built in the neighborhood?
On which corner is the shopping center located?
What are the two processing facilities in the neighborhood?
Where is the airport located?
How much retail activity does the neighborhood have?
What organization built homes in the neighborhood in the 1930s?
Luxury homes were built on what corner?
On what street was the golf course built?
What problem from the Fresno Chandler Airport has plagued residents?
When was State Route 99 Freeway built?
Who founded Woodward Park?
How many total acres is Woodward Park?
How many seats does the amphitheatre at Woodward park have?
How many miles, once completed, will the the Lewis S. Eaton trail cover?
What months out of the year is Woodward Park open?
When did Ralph Woodward come to Fresno?
How large was Woodward's estate in total?
What did Lewis S. Eaton donate?
How many people visit the park each day?
When is the amphitheatre open?
When was the Sierra Sky Park Airport formed?
Who created the nation's first aviation community?
What is the name of the first aviation community built?
The transportation law allows personal aircraft to share the roadways with what?
Are there any other aviation communities such as Sierra Sky Park in the United States?
When did the Sierra Sky Park fall out of use?
Who created all of the nation's aviation communities?
What did the transportation law ban?
What did planes and automobiles have to divide separately?
What is the only community of its kind in the US?
How would one describe the summers in Fresno?
What month is the warmest in Fresno?
How much rain per year does Fresno get on average?
In which direction does most of the wind in Fresno originate from?
In which months does Fresno experience increased wind coming from the southeastern direction?
How many days in August are below freezing?
What percentage of hours of light are there in December?
There is increased wind from what direction in July?
What is the average precipitation rate in July?
How many days does the high not reach 90 in December?
What is the hottest temperature record for Fresno?
On what date was the record low temperature in Fresno?
In what year did Fresno experience the most rainfall?
What is the most snow Fresno has ever had?
What is the most rainfall recorded in a 24 hour period in Fresno?
What is the record low for July?
What is the record high in January?
What was the most rainfall recorded in June?
How much did it snow in 1885?
How much did it rain in 1962?
what was Fresno's population in 2010?
What was the percentage of whit people in Fresno in 2010?
How many Native American people resided in Fresno in 2010?
What was the percentage of Non-Hispanic Whites in 2010? 
How many people per square mile lived in Fresno in 2010?
What was the US population in 2010?
How many Native Americans were there in 1970?
What percentage of Fresno's population was Filipino in 1970?
What racial group has increased since 1970?
What was the population density in 1970?
How many households has kids under the age of 18 living in them?
What was the percentage of a female householder with no husband present?
How many same-sex married couples or partnerships were there?
What was the average family size?
What was the average household size?
What percentage of households had children over the age of 18?
What was the average family size with no wife present?
How many unmarried opposite-sex partnerships had kids?
How many same-sex partnerships without kids were there?
How many households had someone alone under the age of 18?
How many people lived in Fresno in 2000, according to the Census Bureau? 
How many housing units were there in 2000?
What was the percentage of Black or African-Americans living in the city?
About how many of the Asian population was Hmong?
What was the population density in 2000?
A third of Pacific Islanders are what ethnicity?
How many families per square mile are there in Fresno?
What percentage of whites are hispanic or latino?
What percentage of the population is Hmong?
Asians represent what fraction of Hmong?
Why does Fresno only have UHF television stations?
What was the very first television station to broadcast in Fresno?
When did the KMJ-TV first broadcast?
What is KMJ now referred to?
What is the name of the CBS affiliate in Fresno?
What type of stations does Chico have?
What was the first Sacramento station called?
When did the FCC decide Fresno could only have UHF stations?
What was KMJ originally known as?
What is the FOX affiliate in Salinas?
What route connects Fresno with the California Central Valley?
What is another name for State Route 168?
What is another name for the Yosemite Freeway?
State Route 180 comes from which direction via Mendota?
What is another name for State Route 99?
State Route 168 is called the Sierra Freeway and what other two names?
What is west of State Route 41?
What is the name of the park in Atascadero?
State Route 168 head west of what?
Which is the largest city not connected to an interstate highway?
In what year was the Interstate Highway System created?
Which State Route has been in discussion to upgrade to interstate standards?
What are the factors that are contributing to the desire to have SR 99 improved to be of interstate standards?
What is the largest city directly linked to an interstate?
When was State Route 99 built?
What was rapidly increasing by interstate 5?
What do many people want to integrate into interstate 5?
Which side is SR 99 built on?
Which company provides train service in Fresno?
Where is the Santa Fe Railroad Depot located?
What two railroads have railyards in the city of Fresno?
If you were to take a train west or south out of the city of Fresno, which railroad would you take?
Which city is planned to be a part of the California High Speed Rail?
Who renovated the Santa Fe Railroad Depot?
What does the San Joaquin Valley Railroad cross with?
Who owns the California High Speed Rail?
What mainlines head west and south from the city?
Who took over the San Joaquin Valley Railroad branchlines?
What did Paul Baran develop 
What did Distributed Adaptive Message Block Switching do
What did this concept contradict 
What is Donald Davies credited with 
What did Paul Baran develop in the late 1950's
What was the goal of the system 
Who is credited with the modern name for this system 
In the late 1950s what concept was developed?
What did the concept hope to achieve?
How much funding did the RAND Corporation receive?
What was the independent work of Donald Davis?
What was the Bell System?
What did the US Department of Defense gain from their funding to RAND Corporation?
Who credited Paul Baran for his development? 
The Bell System was created by who?
Packet Switching had a goal of creating what? 
Who created ARPANET? 
Did Paul Baran develop Distributed Adaptive Message Block Switching with the goal of monetizing it?
Did Paul Baran has assistance from anyone when he developed the concept?
Was development of this concept originally considered "classified" or a secret?
Was this concept originally intended to be an application only meant for use by the military?
Why was this concept generally unpopular prior to Donald Davies completing his work?
What did Donald Davies develop in the late 1950s?
What did the RAND Corporation do?
What organization did Paul Baran work with in the United Kingdom?
Who created ARPANET in the United States?
What fortified this concept?
Packet Switching contrast with what other principal 
What is circuit switching characterized by
How is packet switching charecterized
What does Packet switching contrast with 
How is circuit switching allocated 
How is circuit switching charecterized 
How is packet switching characterized 
What is Circuit Switching? 
How much bandwidth is dedicated for each communication session?
How is information charged for packet switching?
How is information charged differently for Circuit Switching?
What is latency between nodes?
What is packet switching?
Packet switching communication has what kind of bit rate? 
How is Packet Switching allocated? 
Packet switching speed is determined by what factor? 
Packet switching uses what kind of network? 
Are the sizes of packets variable?  
If packet sizes are variable, then are they always charged at the same rate per packet?
What is the minimum amount, if any, of data to make up a packet?
Can a packet be sent empty?  If so, is it billable?
Circuit switching charges a fee for transferring what kind of information?
Does packet switching charge a fee when no data is transferred?
What does packet switching pre-allocate?
What is special about communication sessions with packet switching?
In cases of shared physical medium how are they delivered 
How is packet mode communication implemented 
How are packets normally forwarded
In cases with shared medium how is it delivered 
What kind of communication can be implemented?
Packets can be delivered via what route? 
What type of medium is a 10BASE5 radio?
What are intermediate forwarding nodes?
How are packets delivered differently?
In cases of non shared medium how are packets delivered? 
In cases of non shared physical medium how are packets delivered? 
How are packets irregularly forwarded? 
When are packet mode communications not implemented? 
How are packet mode communications dissolved? 
How many access points are in a "multiple access scheme"?
Do certain packets take priority over others if sent at the exact same time?
Can a packet be lost and if so, then where does it go?
What exactly is a "leaky bucket" in terms of this matter?
Does a packet of data have physical mass?
If there is no shared physical medium, how are the packets delivered?
How are the packets forwarded synchronously?
If there is no radio or 10BASE5, how are the packets delivered?
What is the only way to forward packets?
What isn't a guaranteed quality of service?
What did Baran develop during research at RAND 
What was developed for the Air Force 
What 3 things does the Air Force work key on 
How are Air force messages delivered 
What concept was developed by Baran while researching at RAND
What was report P-2626
What  things did the network concentrate on 
What delivery message was used 
What was developed in the summer of 1961?
What ideas did the report in 1964 state? 
How many focuses where there in report P-2626?
Who owned RAND Company?
How was forward switching achieved?
Who presented briefing B-265 to the US Air Force?
What did RM 3420 report? 
What was the US Air Force interested in? 
How were messages delivered before implementation? 
What was the Air Force not interested in for their message system? 
Did Baran develop this "only" for use by the Air Force?
Did the RAND corporation retain any of the research?
If this was developed for the Air Force, then does the Air Force still technically own the Intellectual Property?
Assuming the Air Force paid for the development of the concept, then would the Air Force be entitled to a royalty fee for every packet sent?
Was the RAND corporation prohibited from disclosing the research to anyone else except for the Air Force?
What was developed for the RAND Corporation?
How does the corporation deliver these messages?
What was Report R-2626?
What concept did Baran research for the US Air Force?
How did RAND use this network?
What did Donald Davies Develop
What did Davies call his system 
What did Davies want to build 
What use was suggested for the system 
Who developed the same technology as Baran 
What did Davies call the System 
What was suggested at the Symposium in 1967
How independently created a separate system in 1965?
Where was the ACM Symposium held?
What does ARPANET in simple terms?
The Ministry of Defense discussed what in 1966?
Has "independently developed" ever been substantiated?
Did Davies and Baran collaborate at any point after they both developed this concept?
Why did Davies never research his theory, concept, idea, etc. prior to developing it?
Did Davies develop his concept with the intention of monetizing it?
Why not a worldwide network as opposed to simply a UK only network?
What did Baran call his system?
What did Lawrence Roberts suggest the system be used for?
What did Baran want to build with the system?
Who did Davies tell about Baran's work?
What did Baran call his message routing methodology?
What does each packet includ in connectionless mode 
How are the packets routed 
What is included with each packet label
What happens to the packet at the destination
What results in out of order delivery?
While packets are labeled correctly what can happen to them?
Why do packets arrive out of order?
Where is the data reassembled? 
What is a virtual connection?
Can a packet be sent incomplete?
If three sequential packets are sent and the one in the middle is lost, then how is the data recompiled in a meaningful way?
Can a packet ever be sent to the wrong number?
If the packets travel via different routes, then how do they arrive in order?
What is each message labeled with?
How are the messages routed?
Why is there a need for a dedicated path?
What is included in the data in connectionless mode?
What does connection orientation require
What is a connection identifier 
Why is the node requiered to look up 
Is the packet header long 
What is a set up phase? 
How is error checking involved in delivery? 
A routing packet is required under what system? 
What does the node read?
What values are negotiable? 
Can packets ever collide in route?
Are link parameters based on size?
Can the node ever acquire the wrong connection id?
Can address information be changed after the set-up phase?
Is there a situation where the destination can't be discovered?
When is the address information not transferred to each node?
What does connectionless-oriented transmission require?
What is contained in a large packet header? 
What does the address information negotiate?
WHat do x.25 and Frame Relay both require
What were X.25 and Frame relay used for 
What supplanted Frame Relay and X.25 
What is a typical configuration
What does Frame Relay provide?
What is level two of the connection-orientated operation? 
What is the "hand shake" between communication parties?
What is the protocol suite?
Where was the packet switching used in the 1980s? 
Frame Relay requires a handshake from what?
What does Frame Relay's LAPB provide?
What does X.25's integrity operations concern?
When was Frame Relay's protocols used at UNI?
How is X.25 connection-oriented at layer two?
WHen did ARPNET and SITA become operational
2 differences betwen X.25 and ARPNET CITA technologies 
WHat does UserDatagram Protocol gaurentee
X.25 uses what type network type 
How many different network technologies where there before 1973?
What type of network does SITA HLN not use?
X.25 had a simpler what?
X.25 had less functionality because of what?
What defined the differences between the ARPANET and SITA HLN and X.25?
After the introduction of X.25 in 1973, how many network technologies had been developed?
In UDP, the network guarantees what?
What suite uses UDP?
In a virtual call system, the hosts have what responsibility?
What was Apple Talk 
WHat were features of Apple Talk 
What did the Apple system assign automatically 
This type of system is known as 
Apple Inc created what in 1985?
What was the purpose of the suite developed in 1985? 
Why was Appletalk considered plug-n-play? 
What created a centralized router or server?
Could only Apple devices utilize this suite? 
AppleTalk was developed in 1995 for who?
How were non-local area networks established with Appletalk?
Inter-network routing was what kind of system?
What protocol was popular in the 1970s and 80s for Apple?
What network was designed by the french 
What was a first for this network 
How was this possible 
This network influenced  later models of 
What alternative to ARPANET was developed? 
Did ARPANET develop the first system to make hosts responsible for delivery of data?
What concepts influenced the later ARPANET?
Who had influenced ARPANET?
What types of alternatives did CYCLADES give?
Who developed the Finnish research network, the CYCLADES packet?
Why was it developed in 1983?
It wasn't the first network to make the hosts responsible for what?
How did the network deliver the data?
What is  DECnet
What did DECnet originally do 
DEC originally had 3 layers but evolved into how many layers 
What did DECnet phase 2 become 
DECnet stands for what?
What is peer to peer?
What sort of protocols were developed? 
What does DECnet suite include?
Late published versions were utilized by who?
DECnet originally released in 1982 for what reason?
Originally built with four layers, how many layers did DEC evolve to have?
Linux became a networking powerhouse in the 1980s for what reason?
DECnet II protocols were designed by who?
What did DECnet Phase I become?
What was Warner Sinback
The 4 sales and service centers are viewed as 
Were the centers profitable
What did Warner Sinback decide 
Who lost money?
What work was completed at Dartmouth? 
What was the worlds first commercial online service?
What did Warner Sinback offer?
What was Warner correct about?
These five computer sales and service centers are seen as what?
Sinback worked with what college on a time-sharing system?
What job was Kemney given at GE?
WHy was the Merit network formed in Michigan 
What completed the triad 
What set the stage for Merits role in NSFNET
State educational and economic development where helped by what?
Where was the packet-switched network first demonstrated? 
What was the triad? 
What was eventual Merits role? 
How many joined the "network"? 
After the University of Ann Arbor and Wayne State University, who was the third university to complete the triad?
When was Michigan Network Inc. formed by Michigan's public universities?
Why was the Michigan Educational Research Information Trio formed?
What did Michigan Inc. start in the mid-1980s?
NSF helped the network enhance what?
What was telenet 
Who founded Telnet 
Purpose of Telnet 
Telnet Used what  Interface technology
Telnet was sold to 
Telenet was licensed under what founder? 
What was Larry Roberts hope?
BBN provided financing for what?
Why was Telenet purchased in 1979? 
AT&T did not purchase the technology for what reason? 
When AT&T financed the project, what technology did they use?
What GTE director wanted to make ARPANET technology public?
What was the BBN monopoly's reaction to Roberts?
What business was incorporated in 1975?
What was Tymnet
What did Tymnet connect 
How did user of Tymnet connect 
The business allowed for private companies to do what 
Gateways allowed private companies to do what 
Tymnet worked with what?
Private networks were connected via gateways for what reason? 
Who suggested the name of Tymnet? 
Dial up or dedicated async connections connected who? 
Where were servers hosted? 
What international data communications network was headquartered in San Juan, CA?
The public network business allowed government agencies to do what?
How was Tymnet connected to dozens of other private networks?
How were X.75, ASCII, and other interfaces used?
Tymnet consisted of a large private network that supported who?
How many types of X.25 networks were there originally 
Who developed DATAPAC
WHat did foreign clones of DATAPAC allow for 
What was implemented with an X.25 interface? 
What was sold to foreign PTTs?
DNIC allowed a host to do what? 
The Deutsce Bundespost bought what kind of interface look a likes? 
X.25 networks were helped by what? 
How were TRANSPAC and TYMNET modified?
Bell Northern Research developed TRANSPAC as a joint venture between which two companies?
Who did Northen Telecom sell TRANSPAC clones to?
TELENET and TRANSPAC were implemented with what?
X.25 and X.121 allowed what to happen?
What was AUSTPAC
What did AUSTPAC support 
How are AUSTPAC connections made 
What did Telecom Australia start? 
On-line betting was supported by what network frame?
What types of access did Telstra provide? 
Who had remote terminal access? 
The Australian Tax Office used AUSTPAC for what reason? 
Telstra started what in the early 1980s?
The Australian Tax Office used AUSTPAC to access what remotely?
What applications did AUSTPAC not support?
What was the Australian public X.75 network operated by Telstra?
What was DATANET 1 
Strictly speaking who was included in DATANET 1
Who else did DATNET 1 refer to 
Was the Use of the DATANET 1 name correct 
What was confusing within KPN?
Datanet 1 also referred to what? 
KPN referred to Datanet 1 as 
What was considered to be incorrect for the services given out by KPN?
Who managed Datanet 1 for KPN?
What did the public KPN service Telepad use?
What service used the network and modified KPN devices?
What was the network operated by the Duct PTT Telecom?
Though the name was correct, all these services were managed by who?
What is CSNET
What was the purpose of CSNET
Funding limitations allowed CSNET to be what 
What was considered to be a major milestone?
Who spread awareness of national networking? 
Who benefited from CSNET?
Global internet was help funded by what foundation? 
Extended networking benefits helped those that could not connect to what platform? 
What began operation in 1982?
What was the purpose of NSF?
Why did academic and research institutions need NSF's help connecting to ARPANET?
ARPANET played a significant role in what?
NSF was a major milestone for what?
 what is Internet2
Who did internet2 partner with
What was the first internet2 network named
Who did internet2 partner with 
ableine was retired and the new platform is called 
Qwest partnered with who to help create Internet2?
Level 3 communications launched what? 
Internet2 became what in 2007? 
Abilene referred to what? 
A higher capacity network was formed by what project? 
What was the first Internet2 Network created with NLR?
Who did Internet2 partner with to boost their capacity from 100 Gbit/s to 1000 Gbit/s?
Who leads the Qwest consortium?
Abilene was a prime investor in what project?
What is NSFNET
What did NSFNET promote
What did NSFNET eventually provide
Advanced networking was developed by what sponsorship? 
Promoted research in 1985 led to what? 
Original intent of NFS funding was to accomplish what task? 
Public and private funding led to what development? 
What prompted advanced research and education in networking?
NSF began in 1985 to promote what?
NSF developed into what through public funding and private partnerships?
What was constructed to supported NSF in 1985-1999?
Why was NSFUS initially created?
what does vBNS stand for 
What did vBNS do 
Who operated the vBSN network 
By 199 how many universities were connected 
What did the network install in 1999
What were select locations connected to? 
How were high speed connections maintained and who were they monitored by? 
Who created the cooperative agreement? 
Why was OC-12c considered a substantial engineering feat? 
When was OC-12c upgraded? 
Why was NSFBNS created?
NSF was engineered and operated by who?
NSF grew to connect how many universities?
NSF installed one of the first in February 1999?
How many points of presence did NSFBNS have by 1998?
Where did the black death originate?
How did the black death make it to the Mediterranean and Europe?
How much of the European population did the black death kill?
When did the world's population finally recover from the black death?
For how long did the plague stick around?
In what year did the Black Death originate in Central Asia?
How did the Black Death travel down the Silk Road?
What percentage of people died of the Black Death in Central Asia?
What percentage of people died in Crimea of the Black Death?
In what year did the Black Death reach the Mediterranean?
What does it mean for a disease to be enzootic?
How old are the gravestones that reference the plague?
Where do scientists think all of the plagues originated from?
When did the Chinese famine begin?
How many did this epidemic in China kill?
In what year did plague disease spread to Central Asia?
In what year did the Mongol conquest of China begin?
How many people lived in China in the 1300s?
In what country is Constantinople?
What is the term for a disease that is not commonly present?
Who introduced plague to Europe?
Who did the army siege belong to?
What did the Mongol army throw in their catapults?
Where did the genoese traders bring the plague?
What contributed to the severity of the plague?
In what year did Jani Beg become leader of the Mongol army?
In what year was Kaffa founded?
Who else besides Genoa traded with Kaffa?
To what city in Sicily did the Genoese traders flee to?
Who's infected corpse was one of the ones catapulted over the walls of Kaffa by the Mongol army?
Which direction did the disease first move in?
Which country was the last to receive the disease?
What types of European groups were able to avoid the plague?
Where was the disease spreading between 1348 and 1350?
When did a plague-ridden ship land in Norway?
In what month and year did the Black Death spread into France?
What country's ship landed at Oskoy?
In what year did the Black Death spread into Iceland?
Who did the Kingdom of Poland trade with?
What was one of the countries that had isolated alpine villages?
What effect did the plague have on the Middle East?
When had the plague reached Alexandria?
How did the plague infiltrate Alexandria?
Where did the residents of Antioch flee to?
In what year did the plague begin in the Middle East?
Where did the residents of Antioch flee to due to the plague?
In what years did the infection spread to the people of Asia Minor?
What was one of the cities that had a port on the Black Sea?
In what country was Damascus?
Who claimed that the name Black Death first appeared in 1631?
What is the Latin name for Black Death?
Who allegedly coined the name Black Death?
When did the name black death officially take root in England?
Did the plague spread in Scandinavia or Germany first?
In what year did the name "black death" spread into Germany?
In what year did the Black Death spread into England?
In what year was J.I. Pontanus born?
Scandinavia started calling the plague the Black Death in what year?
What's the Latin name for Germany?
What was the black death originally blamed on?
Who was the medical report written for?
What is the newer, more widely accepted theory behind the spread of the plague?
What is the bad air theory officially known as?
In what city did the king of France live?
What actually caused the plague?
In what year was the medical faculty in Paris established?
In what year did medical knowledge begin to stagnate during the Middle Ages?
What was considered responsible for the black death as well as the epidemic in southern China?
Where and when did the investigation of the plague pathogen begin?
Who was yersinia pestis named for?
What did Paul-Louis Simond establish in 1898?
What was the bubonic plague mechanism reliant on?
When did the Black Death spread into India?
In what year did Alexandre Yersin discover the Yersinia pestis?
What nationality was Paul-Louis Simond?
Besides Alexandre Yersin who was another scientist that visited Hong Kong in 1894?
Who named the pathogen Yersinia pestis?
Who wrote about the great pestilence in 1893?
What did Gasquet think the plague was?
When did the second edition of Gasquet's book come out?
What did Gasquet's book blame the plague on?
What is another plague thought to have spread the same way?
When was Francis Aidan Gasquet born?
When did the bubonic plague begin in Europe?
What was the Justinian plague epidemic called?
In what year was the Eastern Roman Empire established?
What is the mortality rate of the modern bubonic plague?
How high do plague fevers run?
What percent of untreated victims of the plague die within 8 days?
What is the mortality rate of pneumonic plague?
What skin-related symptom appears from the pneumonic plague?
What color is the sputum of those suffering from septicemic plague sufferers?
What temperature fever does one have suffering from pneumonic plague?
How high of a fever does someone suffering from septicemic plague have?
How fast does septicemic kill most people left untreated?
How fast does pneumonic plague usually kill most people when left untreated?
When did the Plos Pathogens paper come out?
What was the Plos Pathogens paper about?
How did scientists assess the DNA/RNA of yersinia pestis? 
Where did scientists find their Y. pestis sample? 
What does the plos pathogen paper claim?
In what year was PloS Pathogens first published?
In what country is PloS Pathogens headquartered?
In what year were Polymerase Chain Reactions first used by researchers?
What scientific journal in France published a prior analysis of the Black Death?
In what month was Drancourt and Raoult's research published in 1998?
What are clades?
What strains of y. pestis were found in the mass graves?
What do the strains of y. pestis suggest abut the plague?
How and when did the first variant of y. pestis enter Europe?
When did the y. pestis reach England?
In what year was Marseille founded?
In what year did the second wave of the plague hit the Netherlands?
What was one of the Hanseatic cities?
In what month in 1349 did the second wave of the plague reach England?
In what country did the Y. p. orientalis genome originate?
What is the current status of the Haensch study?
Where was the burial site used for testing located?
What is thought to have happened to the y. pestis that caused the black death?
When was the study on sequenced Y genomes published?
In what year was the Haensch study released?
Who wrote the study published in Nature in October 2011?
What was Schuenemann's first name?
In what year were the Black Death victims in East Smithfield discovered?
Who challenged the plague theory first?
What did Shrewsbury note about the plague?
What was Shrewsbury's conclusion?
What did Graham Twigg publish in 1984?
Who discussed Twigg's study in 2002?
Who first came up with the bubonic plague theory?
What is Samuel K. Cohn Jr.'s career?
What type of scientist is David Herlihy?
Who came up with the term Black Death?
In what year did Samuel K. Cohn, Jr.  read Graham Twigg's major work?
What is as important as identifying plague symptoms?
Why are researchers struggling to identify the history of the plague?
How much do estimations of the population during the plague vary?
Where can population estimates be extrapolated from?
During which years was no census taken?
In what year did the plague begin in England?
In what year was the Domesday Book written?
What is the Domesday Book about?
In what year did the clergy enter England?
Why might rats not be responsible for the plague?
How significant was the transfer of disease through fleas?
Why  might the temperature affect the theory of plague spreading?
Was the bubonic plague spread faster or slower than modern bubonic plague?
How many years could separate outbreaks of the black death?
In what century did modern bubonic plague strike Europe?
Is the weather of southern Europe survivable for fleas?
How was the Black Death spread in Europe?
How many years did it take for the Black Death to spread throughout Europe?
How long did it take to travel across Europe using primitive transport systems?
What does Graham Twigg propose about the spread of disease?
What was Norman Cantor's theory about the plague?
Which diseases do many scientists believe contributed to plague pandemic?
What is septicemia? 
How many bodies did Public Health England exhume? 
What was Twigg's first name?
What type of scientist is Norman Cantor?
Who was one of the scientists for Public Health England in 2014?
In what year was Scott and Duncan's research published?
Who discovered Y. pestis?
How much of the population in the Middle East died of the plague?
How much of Paris' population was killed by the plague?
What do isolated, spaced out graves of plague victims indicate?
How many people would die of plague in largely populated cities?
Which areas were least vulnerable to disease?
How many people lived in Egypt at the start of the Black Death?
In what country is Hamburg?
Where did the plague originate?
What percentage of monks and priests died from the Black Death?
What percentage of people in isolated areas of Europe died from the Black Death?
When did the plague return to Europe?
What did Biraben say about the plague in Europe?
How many French people were lost to plague between 1628-31?
What is Biraben's first name?
When did the First Pandemic end?
Where is Geoffrey Parker from?
Where is Biraben from?
How many people died from the Black Death in Northern  Africa?
What did historians do in the absence of census figures?
When did the black death technically subside?
How many people died in the outbreak of 1471?
When was the great plague of London?
What percentage of the population of London died during the 1589 breakout of the Black Death?
What percentage of people died during the Great Plague of London in 1665?
In what year did the Tudor era begin in England?
What was the population of Europe in 1665?
What percentage of the population died in the 1625 outbreak of the Black Death?
How many people died of plague in Paris in 1466?
The black plague ravaged Europe for three years followed by what country?
How many times did plague occur in Venice?
Which outbreak was associated with troops in the thirty years war?
When was the last plague outbreak?
What percentage of the population of Paris died of the plague in 1466?
How many people lived in Oslo at the start of the plague outbreak in 1654?
What percentage of Venice residents died of the plague in 1361?
Who did Italy fight during the Thirty Years War?
How many people lived in Norway in 1348?
How many were killed by plague in Italy in the 17th century?
How many were killed by plague in Naples in 1656?
How many residents of Seville died of plague in 1649?
Who fought in the great Northern war?
When was Europe's last major epidemic?
In what country is Seville located?
What was one of the allies of Russia in the Great Northern War?
What percentage of the population of Spain died of the plague in the 17th century?
What was the population of Stockholm?
In what country is Marseille?
During which years was the plague present in Islamic countries?
How many people were lost in Algiers during 1620-21?
How long did plague last in the Ottoman empire?
How many people, at most, have died of plague in Baghdad? 
In what year did the residents of Baghdad first become affected by the plague?
How many people lived in Constantinople in 1701?
How many people died of the plague in Ottoman society in the 19th century?
How many times did the plague visit Baghdad?
How many times did the plague visit Ottoman society before the second quarter of the 19th century?
An igneous rock is a rock that crystallizes from what?
Sedimentary rock can be turned into which of the three types of rock?
When the three types of rock are re-melted what is formed? 
What are the three major types of rock? 
What changes the mineral content of a rock?
What are three types of crystallization?
What is an important concept in crystallization?
What kind of mineral crystallizes from erosion?
What changes the way a mineral is deposited?
What happens when three types of minerals are re-deposited and change their characteristics?
What illustrates the relationships between rock and crystal?
Which type of rock cannot be re-melted?
How is a rock lithified?
What does heat prevent from changing in the crystallization process?
What gives sedimentary rock its characteristic fabric?
What was the most important discovery that led to the understanding that Earth's lithosphere is separated into tectonic plates?
Which parts of the Earth are included in the lithosphere? 
What is another word for the Earth's upper mantle?
Plate tectonics can be seen as the intimate coupling between rigid plates on the surface of the Earth and what? 
In what decade was seafloor spreading discovered? 
When was the most important discovery about thermal boundaries made?
What is another word for seafloor spreading?
What direction do sea currents and seafloor spreading always move in?
What is involved in sea current coupling?
What is another term for sea currents?
What are the different tectonic plates called?
Why do oceanic plates and mantle convection currents move in opposite directions?
What is the lower thermal boundary layer called?
When was the lithosphere discovered?
What are the lithosphere and asthenosphere called when coupled together?
What is the area called where two plates move apart?
What is the area called where one plate subducts under another?
What type of fault boundary is defined by having widespread powerful earthquakes, as in the state of California?
Whose theory was the theory of continental drift?
The lithosphere moves over which mantle n the theory of plate tectonics?
What did the theory regarding the San Andreas fault do?
What were mid ocean ridges and high regions of geologic features called?
What happened as a result of hydrothermal vents and underwater volcanoes that are transform boundaries?
What keeps the theory of transform boundaries going?
Who discovered plate tectonics?
Why was Wegener's theory important for understanding the lithosphere?
Where in the ocean are volcano arcs located?
What is the mechanism for plate tectonics?
What happens when one plate touches another?
What types of waves do seismologists use to image the interior of the Earth?
In the layered model of the Earth, the outermost layer is what? 
In the layered model of the Earth, the mantle has two layers below it. What are they? 
In the layered model of the Earth there are seismic discontinuities in which layer? 
Recently a more detailed model of the Earth was developed. Seismologists were able to create this using images of what from the interior of the Earth? 
What do seismologists use to map the Earth's crust?
What was not able to see through the dense solid core of the Earth?
By how many kilometers are shear waves separated when measuring the crust?
What have CT scans lead to for doctors and their patients?
In the layered Earth model, what is the inner core separated by?
What is the outer core called?
What is the size of the mantle?
How quickly to wave speeds inside the earth move?
Why is the second timeline needed? 
Which timeline is further expanded in the fourth scale?
What is the name of the latest epoch?
The Pleistocene epoch takes place during which period?
What does the second timeline compress?
What has the first timeline added to the timeline to expand it?
Why is the most recent era expanded in the first scale?
Where is the Holocene further expanded since it is very short with short epochs?
Why is the Holocene not shown clearly on the first timeline?
What is the largest eon?
Which timeline is the most accurate?
How many epochs are there?
What does the fourth scale compress?
What is the name of the epoch expanded in the second scale?
What principle relates to the formation of faults and the age of the sequences through which they cut? 
When rock formations are found on top of a fault that have not been cut, then they must be older or younger than the fault?
Finding what helps to determine if a fault is a normal fault or a thrust fault? 
Rocks on top of a fault that are cut are always older or younger than the fault itself?
What principle helps find the difference between a normal or thrust fault?
What are key beds younger than?
What needs to be found to find out if rocks are related?
What is the age of key beds if they are related to a fault and not cut?
What does cutting a key bed help an older rock form?
What is the key bed?
What principle helps define the key bed?
Why are cut rocks on top of a fault younger than the fault?
What is a thrust fault?
What can you say about a fault that penetrates the top rocks but not the lower formations?
What foreign bodies, which are older than the rocks themselves, occur igneous rocks?
Xenoliths are picked up by what and deposited into the matrix of igneous rocks? 
What is another word for inclusions in sedimentary rocks? 
What is the principle that states that with sedimentary rocks, inclusions must be older than the formation that contains them?
What is something that is often torn up and included in sedimentary rock?
What do matrix components show about how magma flows?
Where is the gravel from that is found in xenoliths?
What happens to the gravel found in xenoliths?
What is another word for xenoliths?
How old is a lava flow after it cools?
Why do igneous rocks use gravel?
What are xenoliths made out of?
What says that formations must be older than the inclusions inside them?
What is the matrix?
What is another name a formation? 
Which principle is based on the appearance of fossils in sedimentary rocks?
Whose principles were the principle of faunal succession built upon?
The fact that not all fossils may be found globally at the same time causes the principle to become what?
The presence or absence of what can be used to determine the relative age of the formations in which they are found? 
The principle of faunal succession was developed 100 years before whose theory of evolution?
Where can sedimentary rock not be found at the same time?
What is the theory of evolution based on?
What can changes in habitat be used to provide about formations?
How much time after Charles Darwin, did William Smith develop the principles of succession?
What is one uncertainty about the theory of evolution that makes it complex?
When was Charles Darwin's theory of evolution published?
Who wrote the principles of faunal succession?
Why is the theory of evolution so complex?
Why is it easy to use an organism's absence to show the age of a formation?
The principles of succession are dependent on what thought?
When was the ability to use radioactive isotopes to date rock formations developed?
What type of correlation was used previously to help date rock formations?
It is now possible to convert old relative ages into what type of ages using isotopic dating?
Previous to isotopic dating sections of rocks had to be dated using fossils and stratigraphic correlation relative to what? 
When dating rocks, what is the absolute isotopic date applied to?
How did the advancement of using fossils help geological science in the early 20th century?
What did using fossils help change for scientists?
When was the ability to use fossils to date isotope formations developed?
What has it now become possible to do when dating isotopes while using fossils?
What can scientists apply relative rock sections to to find isotopes?
When did geologists stop using isotopes?
When did geologists beginning comparing fossils to each other?
What did stratigraphic correlation replace?
Absolute ages had to be converted into what?
What are fossil sequences applied to?
What techniques can be used to determine paleotopography?
The point at which different radiometric isotopes stop diffusing into and out of the crystal lattice is called what?
What type of ratios are used in geochronologic and thermochronologic studies?
How can you find the absolute age of sedimentary rock units which do not contain radioactive isotopes?
What are crystal lattices measured in?
What is one thing measuring in crystal lattices shows in ash layers?
What is one thing ash layers can be used to determine in a crystal lattice?
What does pluton emplacement give after a stratigraphic sequence is measured in minerals?
What studies use pluton emplacement?
What is the crystal lattice made out of?
What does paleotopography study?
What is the point that radiometric isotopes begin diffusing called?
What cannot be used to find the age of pluton emplacement?
What determines the temperature profile outside of the crust?
Rock units become thicker and shorten when placed under this type of compression. 
Where do thrust faults form?
When rock folds deep in the Earth it can fold one of two ways, when it buckles upwards it creates what? 
When rock folds deep in the Earth it can fold one of two ways, when it buckles downwards it creates what? 
If the tops of the rock units within the folds remain pointing upwards, they are called what? 
What happens when syncline is horizontally compressed?
What are two ways that mud doesn't change in volume?
What happens because younger rock is deeper?
What happens deeper in the Earth where brittle deformation occurrs?
What are two types of faults that happen in the shallow crust?
What kind of unit tends to change its volume?
What principle states that rocks deeper in the layer tend to be younger?
What behaviour causes rocks deeper in the earth to fault instead of folding?
What happens to rock units under vertical pressure?
What are buckles facing downwards in a fault called?
This causes the rock unit as a whole to become longer and thinner. 
Stretched rocks that pinch into lenses are known by what word? 
Where can the entire sedimentary sequence of the Grand Canyon be seen in less than the length of a meter?
Rocks that are a depth where they are ductilely stretched are also often what?
What causes rock extension?
What is another word for thinning rocks in French?
Where can lower rocks of the Grand Canyon be seen?
What happens to sediment layers that are also thinning?
What does extension do to sediment that is less than a meter long?
How does sediment make rock fall?
What places younger units above older units?
How long is a boudin?
How long is the Maria Fold?
Where does extension occur?
What was the stretched sequence in the Grand Canyon named?
What is another word for long, planar igneous intrusions?
Where do dikes form?
What type of gradients are formed by faulting and other deformational processes?
What activity maintains topographic gradients?
What events are often associated with volcanism and igneous activity?
What are two ways lava tubes are added during deformation?
During what process are lava tubes expanded?
What two types of activity are associated with the Canadian shield?
What does motion along dike swarms maintain?
What does continuous motion along dike swarms create for sediment to be deposited?
What causes hillslopes and channels to erode?
The creation of topographic gradients causes what?
What causes the topographic gradients to collapse?
What is another name for a deformational event?
What is another name for a dike swarm?
The Hawaiian Islands are made up almost entirely of what?
What is the oldest known rock in the world?
What type of rock is found at the Grand Canyon?
The rocks at the Grand Canyon have been in place since when?
Where is the oldest known rock in the world located?
What is Hawaii made of that has existed since Cambrian time?
What has happened to sedimentary, volcanic and intrusive rock in the Grand Canyon?
What has happened to the the rock in the Grand Canyon that is the oldest rock in the world?
What is hard to find about the origin of Grand Canyon rock unless analyzed in a lab?
What area in northwestern Canada has almost-undeformed stacks of sedimentary rock?
What is the youngest rock to metamorphosize?
How long have the intrusive rocks in the southwestern US been around?
What is the Grand Canyon not an example of?
What is complex about the layering of the Hawaiian islands?
What was formed after the undeformed units were deposited?
What is petrology?
What is stratigraphy?
What is structural geology?
 What modern formations do geologists study?
What do scientists use to determine the process of river movement?
What is another word for the study of past and current life?
What method studies the positions of glaciers and their subsurface?
What are sedimentary layers used to investigate?
What are biogeochemical pathways used to decipher?
What do Geologists use to study processes outside of the earth?
What are used in non-typical investigations?
What are biogeochemical pathways?
What do geologists use to investigate the surface?
What ancient property do geologists study?
What do petrologists use electron microprobes in the laboratory for?
What properties are analyzed with a conoscopic lens by petrologists? 
Stable and radioactive isotope studies provide insight into what?
Petrologists identify rock samples in the field and where else? 
What type of microscope is used by petrologists?
Where is cross-polarized light identified by petrologists?
What are two methods for identifying plane-polarized light in the lab?
What equipment is used to identify individual crystals?
What properties are there in crystals?
What is used to view the properties of crystals?
What do unstable isotope studies indicate?
What does optical microscopy identify about individual locations?
What kind of rock samples are analyzed by an electron microprobe?
What methods do petrologists use to examine rocks out in the field?
What lens is used to identify chemical composition?
How else can petrologists understand the pressures at which different mineral phases appear?
How else can petrologists understand the temperature at which different mineral phases appear?
Data from physical experiments can be extrapolated to the field to understand what processes? 
What do petrologists use to understand magma chamber crystallization?
What experiments are used to understand how magma flows?
How does the flow of magma change?
What else can magma flows be used to understand?
What can experiments be used to explain beside magma crystallization?
What does the magma chamber evolution explain?
What processes occur above the earth?
How do physical experiments explain fluid inclusion data?
Research regarding metamorphic processes helps explain what about pressure?
What type of geologists give information about strain within the crystalline structure of the rocks?
How do structural geologists observe the fabric within the rocks?
In order to better understand the orientations of faults and folds, structural geologists do what with measurements of geological structures?
What kind of experiments of rock deformation do structural geologists perform?
In what setting do structural geologists reconstruct the crystalline structure of rocks?
What experiments are used to reconstruct rock fabric? 
Why do geologists plot crystals under a microscope?
What information does history of rock deformation give about crystal structure?
What do structural geologists do with measurements of fabric in crystals?
What does the orientation of the thin sections tell geologists?
How do geologists identify the measurements of a geological structure?
What does the deformation of a rock tell geologists?
What experiment can be performed on large settings that cannot be on small settings?
What instrument is used to perform analogy and numerical experiments?
Zones in which mountains are built along convergent tectonic plate boundaries are called what?
What are among the most well known experiments in structural geology? 
Horizontal layers of what are pulled along a surface into a back stop in analog versions of orogenic wedge experiments?
What does critically tapered mean? 
Which is more sophisticated, numericals model or an analog models of orogenic wedges? 
What do orogenic wedges work in the same way as?
What are analog models often considered as compared to orogenic wedges?
What do analog models include in the pathway for metamorphism?
How do studies give information about tectonic plate boundaries?
What are some of the most well known experiments in patterns of faulting?
What are layers of sand pulled out of?
How are analog models different than numerical models?
What are horizontal layers of sand called?
What do studies on metamorphism through pressure help clarify?
What does an analog model have that a numerical model doesn not?
The analysis of stratigraphic sections such as drill cores is done by who?
What type of surveys show the location of stratigraphic units in the subsurface?
What can be combined with geophysical data to produce a better view of the subsurface?
What tool do stratigraphers use to see their data in three dimensions?
Stratigraphers try to locate areas for what types of extraction? 
What do computers analyze in the lab?
What is an example of what is analyzed by computers in the lab?
What do drill cores show about water location?
What can drill cores and ancient processes be combined to show?
What do computers use coal to reconstruct?
What are taken from the laboratory into the field?
What shows the location of drill cores?
What computer program allows stratigraphers to view the subsurface in three dimensions?
What are well logs?
What are ancient processes used to do?
Who analyzes rock samples from drill cores in the lab? 
Who dates rocks, precisely, within the stratigraphic section?
Why is it important to precisely date rocks within the stratigraphic section? 
What types of scientists looks for signs of magnetic reversals in igneous rocks within the drill cores?
What do geochronologists analyze fossils from drill cores for?
What do outcrop samples help magnetic stratigraphers to date?
What do biostratigraphers want to understand about past climate?
What do magnetic straitigraphers precisely date?
What do geochronologists look for in drill cores?
What are found in fossils?
What helps scientists to date fossils?
What do Magnetic stratigraphers use isotopes to study?
Where is the stratigraphic section?
What type of studies do Geochronologists perform?
Fielding H. Garrison believes that the science of geology can be traced to where?
Living from 973–1048 CE he was one of the earliest Persian geologists, what was his name?
In China, this person inferred that the land was formed by erosion of the mountains and by silt deposition, what was his name?
This person proposed explanations for the origins of earthquakes and the formation of mountains, what was his name?
What prompted Shen Kuo to believe the land was formed by erosion of the mountains?
Where did Ibna Sina believe the origin of geology science was?
One of the earliest writings on India written by Fielding H. Garrison hypothesized what?
What literature did Fielding H. Garrison draw from that wasn't destroyed by Muslims?
What did Ibn Sina, who lived from 1031-1095 base his hypothesis for land formation on?
How did Fielding H. Garrison believe land was formed?
Where is Fielding H. Garrison from?
What was Shen Kuo's religion?
When was Greek and Indian literature destroyed by conquests?
What did Abu al-Rayhan al-Biruni base his writings on?
When was Garrison born?
Who is viewed as the first modern geologist?
In 1785 James Hutton presented what paper to the Royal Society of Edinburgh?
James Hutton published a 2 volume version of his theories in what year?
What was the main idea of James Hutton's paper?
When was James Hutton born?
When was the Royal Society of Edinburgh founded?
What did the Royal Society of Edinburgh present in 1785?
What was the theory the Royal Society presented?
Why did the Royal Society think the Earth was older than previously thought?
When was James Hutton born?
When was the Royal Society of Edinburgh formed?
Why did Hutton believe the earth needed to be much younger than previously believed?
Who was the first geologist?
When did Hutton die?
Who produced the first geological map of the U.S.?
In what year was the first geological map of the U.S. produced?
In what year did William Maclure begin the process of creating the first geological map of the U.S.?
To whom did William Maclure submit the map?
What was the memoir entitled which was submitted to the American Philosophical Society?
When was the American Philosophical Society created?
What did the American Philosophical Society produce in 1809?
What did William Smith cross about 50 times?
What memoir did William Smith write that was published in the Society's Transactions?
What did William Smith do in the US?
When was the first geological map of the entire earth created?
How many times did Maclure cross the Union states?
Who published William Smith's geological map?
When did the American Philosophical Society enlist Maclure to make the geological survey?
How many years later was Maclure's memoir published after the map?
First published by Sir Charles Lyell in 1830 this book was called what? 
What doctrine did the doctrine of the Principles of Geology successfully promote?
Which theory states that slow geological processes are still occurring today, and have occurred throughout Earth's history?
Which theory states that Earth's features remained unchanged after forming in one single catastrophic event?
Which famous evolutionist was influenced by the book Principles of Geology?
What did Charles Darwin publish in 1830?
What did Charles Darwin successfully promote?
What does catastrophism believe is still occurring today?
What did people think about catastrophism during Charles Darwin's time?
What did Hutton believe was formed in one catastrophic event?
What book did Darwin publish in 1830?
What idea by Charles Lyell was widely accepted at the time of publication?
When was Sir Charles Lyell born?
Whom was Charles Lyell influenced by?
Lyell's book failed to publicize what view?
What word is the word pharmacy taken from?
What goods were sold in a pharma?
What did the Greek root pharmakos imply?
How would the word apothecary be viewed by contemporary English speakers?
What else was used by pharmas?
What did pharma not sell?
What did the English root pharmakos imply?
What else was avoided by pharmas?
In what century was the term pharma last used?
What type of professionals are pharmacists?
What types of health outcomes do pharmacists aim for with their patients?
What type of treatment are pharmacists important for?
What other role do many pharmacists play?
What types of preparation do pharmacists have?
What type of professionals do pharmacists lack?
What types of health outcomes do pharmacists never have with their patients?
What other role do many pharmacists avoid?
What types of preparation do pharmacists not require?
What type of treatment are pharmacists not needed for?
Who oversees a Pharmacy Technician in the UK?
With what body must a pharmacy technician register?
What is a main duty of the GPhC?
What type of professional is a Pharmacy Technician considered to be?
What types of responsibilities might a pharmacy technician have?
Who is not required to oversee a Pharmacy Technician in the UK?
With what body must a pharmacy not be allowed to register?
What is a secondary duty of the GPhC?
What types of responsibilities might a pharmacy technician not be responsible for?
Who was a man studying medicinal applicants of plants in Ancient Greece?
What is Pedanius Dioscorides known for?
What is the name of the Latin translation of Dioscorides' book?
What term resulted from Dioscorides' book?
Who added to Dioscorides' book in the Islamic Golden Age?
Who is a man studying medicinal applicants of plants in Modern Greece?
What is Pedanius Dioscorides not known for?
What is the name of the German translation of Dioscorides' book?
Who was removed from Dioscorides' book in the Islamic Golden Age?
Who was the only man to study medicinal properties of plants in Ancient Greece?
How were the men who did tasks like those of today's pharmacists viewed in Japan in the Asuka and Nara periods?
In which two codes were the roles of pharmacists codified?
What put a hierarchical structure in place?
What stature did pharmacists have in the pre-Heian Imperial court?
Where did the pharmacist stand in relation to the Emperor's personal physicians?
What removed a hierarchical structure?
Which two codes were the roles of pharmacists destroyed?
Where did the pharmacist stand in relation to the Emperor?
What role was not respected during the Asuka period?
Developments in which scientists influenced the creation of pharmacology in medieval Islam?
Who was influential in promoting the use of chemical compounds as medicines?
Who authored the Liber servitoris?
Which two compounds did Al-Muwaffaq differentiate between?
Who wrote about the distillation of drinking water from sea water?
Who had no influence in promoting the use of chemical compounds as medicines?
Who couldn't read the Liber servitoris?
Who wrote about the distillation of sea water from drinking water?
Which two compounds did Al-Muwaffaq combine?
Which scientists avoided the creation of pharmacology in modern Islam?
How far does one pharmacy in Croatia date back to?
Where is the oldest pharmacy stated to be located?
What is the medieval Esteve Pharmacy used as at present?
What sorts of items are displayed in the Esteve Pharmacy museum?
In what year is the oldest pharmacy said to have been established?
Where is the newest pharmacy stated to be located?
What year is the oldest pharmacy said to have been lost?
What is the medieval Esteve Pharmacy no longer used as at present?
What sorts of items are never displayed in the Esteve Pharmacy museum?
What is the dispensary subject to in a majority of countries?
What responsibilities were pharmacy technicians formerly limited to?
What do pharmacy technicians depend on more and more?
What are new responsibilities pharmacy technicians now deal with?
What does pharmacy legislation mandate?
What is the dispensary subject to in a minority of countries?
What do pharmacy technicians depend on less and less?
What does pharmacy legislation never mandate?
What responsibilities are pharmacy technicians limited to?
What are responsibilities pharmacy technicians never deal with?
Where do pharmacists acquire more preparation following pharmacy school?
What do clinical pharmacists specialize in?
What is one issue that adds to the complexity of a pharmacist's job?
Which pharmacists are likely to seek additional education following pharmacy school?
Where do pharmacists not go following pharmacy school?
What do clinical pharmacists not specialize in?
What is one issue that takes away the complexity of a pharmacist's job?
Which pharmacists never seek additional education following pharmacy school?
Where are many hospital pharmacies located?
In what form are most hospital medications?
What types of pharmacy functions have begun to be outsourced?
What is one factor that increases the importance of the pharmacy performing at a high level?
What are some advantages of hospital pharmacies?
Where are no hospital pharmacies located?
What form are most hospital medications forbidden from being?
What types of pharmacy functions have never been outsourced?
What is one factor that decreases the importance of the pharmacy performing at a high level?
What are some disadvantages of hospital pharmacies?
What do the services given by pharmacists provide?
What is the origin of clinical pharmacy?
Who do clinical pharmacists work with much of the time?
What do clinical pharmacists often participate in?
Where do clinical pharmacists work with patients?
What is not the origin of clinical pharmacy?
Who do clinical pharmacists never work with?
What do clinical pharmacists not participate in?
Where are clinical pharmacists not allowed to work with patients?
What is one example of what a clinical pharmacist's duties entail?
What is involved in a review of prescribed medications?
What are the components of drug therapy?
What are some other factors a pharmacist must monitor?
What is not an example of what a clinical pharmacist's duties entail?
What is never involved in a review of prescribed medications?
What are no longer components of drug therapy?
What are some other factors a pharmacist can't monitor?
What type of authority are ambulatory care pharmacists given in the U.S. federal health care system?
In what states are pharmacist clinicians given prescriptive and diagnostic authority?
When was ambulatory care pharmacy approved as its own certification?
What will a pharmacist who passes the ambulatory pharmacist exam be called?
What entities are included in the federal health care system?
What type of authority are ambulatory care pharmacists not given in the U.S. federal health care system?
What states are pharmacist clinicians given no prescriptive and diagnostic authority?
When was ambulatory care pharmacy rejected as its own certification?
What entities are not included in the federal health care system?
What will a pharmacist who fails the ambulatory pharmacist exam be called?
What is consultant pharmacy mainly concerned with?
Where do a majority of consultant pharmacists tend to work?
What are some large pharmacy management companies?
What is the main reason consulting pharmacists are increasingly working directly with patients?
What do some community pharmacies do?
What is consultant pharmacy not concerned with?
Where do a minority of consultant pharmacists tend to work?
What are some small pharmacy management companies?
What is the secondary reason consulting pharmacists are increasingly working directly with patients?
What do no community pharmacies do?
When did internet pharmacies begin to come into being?
Who often operates internet pharmacies?
What are internet pharmacies also called?
What is one reason a patient might choose an internet pharmacy?
What is the main difference between online pharmacies and community pharmacies?
When did internet pharmacies begin to end?
Who can't operates internet pharmacies?
What are internet pharmacies never called?
What is not a reason a patient might choose an internet pharmacy?
What is no different between online pharmacies and community pharmacies?
Why might customers order from internet pharmacies?
Who has criticized ordering from online pharmacies that don't require prescriptions?
What is a criticism of online pharmacies that issue drugs without a prescription?
What practice do some internet pharmacies engage in?
What do most online pharmacies do?
Why might customers not order from internet pharmacies?
What do no online pharmacies allow?
What is a requirement of online pharmacies that issue drugs without a prescription?
What practice do all internet pharmacies avoid?
What conditions must be met for a prescription for a controlled substance to be valid?
What is one problem with internet pharmacies?
What conditions must be met to prescribe a controlled substance?
What is the obligation of a pharmacy filling a prescription?
Who defines what constitutes a patient-doctor relationship?
What is an example of a controlled substance?
What is not a problem with internet pharmacies?
Who does not define what constitutes a patient-doctor relationship?
What is not an example of a controlled substance?
What conditions can't be met to prescribe a controlled substance?
What is not an obligation of a pharmacy filling a prescription?
What is a reason for the movement to legalize importing medicines from other countries?
What is one country that has been suggested for importation of medicines?
Who are FDA laws against importing medications aimed at?
Has there ever been anyone charged with importing drugs from Canada for personal medicinal use?
What is there a push for in the U.S. to reduce consumer drug costs?
What is a reason for the movement to illegalize importing medicines from other countries?
What is one country that can't be suggested for importation of medicines?
Who are FDA laws against importing medications not aimed at?
Why is there not a push for the U.S. to reduce consumer drug costs?
What two things does pharmacy informatics bring together?
What fields may pharmacy informatics also work in?
Whose needs will the growth in pharmacy informatics meet?
What areas are pharmacy informatics prepared to work in?
How fast is pharmacy informatics growing?
What two things can pharmacy informatics not bring together?
What fields may pharmacy informatics not work in?
Whose needs will the growth in pharmacy informatics damage?
What areas are pharmacy informatics not prepared to work in?
What is the fastest growing area in the pharmaceutical industry?
How many drugs approved by the FDA in 2013 were specialty drugs?
What types of diseases are specialty drugs often used against?
What types of medications do specialty pharmacies stock?
Besides drugs, what else do specialty pharmacies provide?
What is the slowest growing area in the pharmaceutical industry?
How many drugs approved by the FDA in 2011 were specialty drugs?
What types of diseases are specialty drugs no longer used against?
What types of medications do specialty pharmacies never stock?
How are pharmacists regulated in most jurisdictions?
Who do most jurisdictions say can give scheduled drugs to the public?
What body has stated that physicians can also dispense drugs under specific conditions?
What is the estimate of how many physicians give out drugs on their own?
What are pharmacists forbidden to do?
Who do no jurisdictions say can give scheduled drugs to the public?
What body has stated that physicians can't dispense drugs under specific conditions?
How are pharmacists never regulated?
Where are some physicians permitted to prescribe and give out medications within their practices?
What is another country that permits physicians to give out drugs from within their practice?
What is the minimum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician to give out medication?
What is the minimum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician in Austria to give out medicine?
Where are some physicians not permitted to prescribe and give out medications within their practices?
What is another country that doesn't permit physicians to give out drugs from within their practice?
What is the maximum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician to give out medication?
What is the maximum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician in Austria to give out medicine?
Why is majority rule used?
Why might a physician diagnose a large number of conditions?
What do rules about conflict of interest involving doctors diagnosing patients resemble?
Where might the doctor's self-interest be at odds with the patient's self-interest?
How else might a physician take advantage of self-interest?
Why is majority rule avoided?
Why might a physician never diagnose a large number of conditions?
What do rules about conflict of interest involving doctors diagnosing patients not resemble?
Where might the doctor's self-interest be equivalent with the patient's self-interest?
How else might a physician not take advantage of self-interest?
What will be the importance of the pharmacist in coming decades?
What responsibilities are pharmacists believed to be taking on more in the future?
What is included in Medication Therapy Management?
What are examples of clinical services that pharmacists can provide?
What are outcomes expected with Medication Therapy Management?
What will be the importance of the pharmacist in past decades?
What responsibilities are pharmacists believed to be taking less of in the future?
What is not included in Medication Therapy Management?
What are not examples of clinical services that pharmacists can provide?
What outcomes are not expected with Medication Therapy Management?
Which provinces in Canada limit the rights of pharmacists in prescribing?
Who pays Australian pharmacists for doing Home Medicines Reviews?
What are pharmacists in the United Kingdom being increasingly paid for?
What fields have increased in influence on pharmacy in the United States?
What degree is now mandatory in the U.S. in order to be a licensed pharmacist?
Which provinces in Canada extend the rights of pharmacists in prescribing?
Who can't pay Australian pharmacists for doing Home Medicines Reviews?
What are pharmacists in the United Kingdom being paid less for?
What fields have lost influence over pharmacy in the United States?
What degree is no longer mandatory in the U.S. in order to be a licensed pharmacist?
What are the two symbols that signify pharmacy in English-speaking countries?
What symbol was employed until early in the 20th century?
What country uses the Bowl of Hygieia as a symbol of pharmacy?
What countries use a red stylized A to signify pharmacy?
Which countries use the green Greek cross as a symbol of pharmacy?
What are the two symbols that signify pharmacy in non-English-speaking countries?
What symbol was employed until early in the 19th century?
What country no longer uses the Bowl of Hygieia as a symbol of pharmacy?
What countries use a blue stylized A to signify pharmacy?
Which countries use the red Greek cross as a symbol of pharmacy?
What is it called when people in society rebel against laws they think are unfair?
What is an example of major civil disobedience in South Africa?
What was the the movement called that brought Baltic countries independence from the Soviet Union?
In 2004 the Orange revolution occurred in what country?
Where was the location of the 2003 Rose revolution?
Which people brought forward one of the earliest examples of Civil Disobedience?
Who was one of the earliest examples of Civil Disobedience against?
Why do people chose civil disobedience to protest?
What does civil disobedience protest against?
What civil rights movement in the US was known for it's disobedience?
What is the definition of Germany adopting a Communist government?
What did the Velvet revolution hope to accomplish in India?
Whose occupation did the Egyptians resist in the 2003 Rose Revolution?
To what countries did the 1919 Revolution want to bring independence to from Russia?
In what country was the 2004 Velvet Revolution?
Sophocles demonstrated civil disobedience in a play that was called?
Who is Antigone's father in the play?
What is the name of the current King of Thebes in the play?
What character in the play portrays civil disobedience?
What is Creon trying to stop Antigone from doing in the play? 
What play showed an early depiction of civil disobedience?
Antigone was a play made by whom?
In Antigone, who was the target of civil disobedience?
What was the protest in Antigone about?
How was the civil disobedience shown in Antigone?
What play by Oedipus, demonstrates civil disobedience?
Who is the father of Sophocles?
Who does Sophocles defy?
Why does Sophocles defy Creon in the play?
What must Sophocles do instead of following the king's will?
After the Peterloo massacre what poet wrote The Massacre of Anarchy?
His poem is considered the first kind of what type of protest?
What famous author used similarity and likeness of Percy Shelly in his writing?
Inspired by Shelley what was the name of Gandhi's doctrine?
Gandhi often referenced Shelley's poem in his efforts to do what? 
Who wrote the poem The Mark of Anarchy?
The Mark of Anarchy was written to protest against what?
What was the principle shown in The Mark of Anarchy?
Which famous Indian practiced civil disobedience?
What was Ghandi's work called?
In what year was the Satyagraha massacre?
What was written by Ghandi in 1819?
Why did Ghandi write The Mask of Anarchy?
What theme does Ghandi begin The Mask of Anarchy with?
What would Henry David Thoreau quote to audiences in India?
Vice President Agnew describes Civil disobedience in what activities?
Civil disobedience has been argued in more recent times to have suffered from what?
More in the present prevalence of civil disobedience has turned and said to be?
What person argues that civil disobedience is used to describe everything?
In modern times, what is said about civil disobedience?
Who noted the different current uses of civil disobedience?
How has civil disobedience evolved in current times?
Who gave a negative connotation to civil disobedience in recent history?
What issue has been plaguing the civil disobedience movement.
What had Vice President Agnew always suffered from? 
What had happened to Vice President Agnew's status in modern times?
What did Marchall Cohen note about crime?
What types of people were always involved in the court system?
What type of person would be involved in a test case in federal court?
Who wrote that it is difficult to produce an all inclusive definition of civil disobedience?
Le Grande also wrote that defining the term civil disobedience so difficult it could be described as? 
Le grand asks for a variance of what three terms?
Le grand states that students studying civil disobedience will often run into grammatical niceties and what other problem? 
Le grand concludes that an author's words offer only what they intended for them to imply regarding this type of terminology?
Who said that writing a good description of civil disobedience is hard?
How much literature has been written regarding civil disobedience?
What issue plagues the literature about civil disobedience?
What type of protest falls under civil disobedience without aggression?
What type of civil disobedience is accompanied by aggression?
Who wrote that its difficult to formulate a definition of grammatical niceties?
What did LeGrande write about grammatical niceties?
What are you surrounded with if trying to study about violence in society?
How much has been written about the subject of grammar?
What novel was written by LeGrande?
If the head of government refuses to enforce a decision of the highest court what terminology could be used?
Constitutional impasse is different from civil disobedience because does not include what type of person?
How is civil disobedience typically defined in connection of the citizen's?
When would a person be considered to be excising a constitutional impasse?
Constitutional impasse is distinct from what key term? 
What does civil disobedience relate to?
What does not constitute as civil disobedience?
What type of person can not be attributed civil disobedience?
Civil Disobedience is mainly performed by what population group?
What group of people cannot be part of civil disobedience?
What two public agencies conflict under the defnintion of civil disobedience?
What else does an agency have a relationship with under the civil disobedience definition?
How many citizens conflict in a constitutional impasse?
What group promotes using conflict to decide cases?
A constitutional impasse pertains to how a citizen relates to the state and what?
What author argues pitching the conscience versus the collective?
What was Thoreau's punishment for not paying his taxes?
Thoreau argues that usually majority rules but their views collectively are sometimes?
What did Thoreau ask a public figure the taxman to do?
Thoreau mentions what type of person could corrupt a government system?
Who is the final judge of right and wrong?
Who is to blame for acting unjustly?
Who was famous for disobedience against a tax collector?
What advise did Thoreau give the tax collector when unable to perform his duty?
What did Thoreau claim about the majority?
What was the taxman's political philosophy?
What was the government the final judge of?
Who did the government refuse to pay?
What did the government want Thoreau to do?
Who's will may elite politicians follow according to the government?
Some theories argue that civil disobedience is justified in regard to?
Brownlee argues disobedience can be justified toward what institutions?
Brownlee justifies civil disobedience toward what branch of the government?
Browlee also applies that civil disobedience is okay regarding?
What do some theories claim about civil disobedience?
Who claims that public companies can also be part of civil disobedience?
What reason is given that you should also protest public companies?
What public entity of learning is often target of civil disobedience?
Who believed that civil disobedience should only be used against governmental entities?
What two groups do trade unions think civil disobedience is justified against?
When is civil disobedience justified against certain groups according to trade unions?
In what other way can disobedience be applied to international organizations and governments?
When do banks believe civil disobedience is justified?
If law breaking is not done in a public manor it is not considered what term?
Stephen Eilmann asks why show public civil disobedience instead what is a better idea?
Stephen Eilmann demonstrates covert law breaking in Nazi Germany.   Citizen's illegally had been doing what? 
Stephen Eildmann cites the oldest known example of civil disobedience in what part of the bible? 
What two women were defying the pharaoh in the story from the book of Exodus? 
What must be done to make non public lawbreaking acknowledged as civil disobedience?
What is necessary to disobey?
What is sometimes more effective than civil disobedience at times?
What dilemma is a good example of moral civil disobedience?
What book of the Bible discusses civil disobedience?
What must be announced publicly so you can still find a lawyer to represent you?
What publication was written by Stephen Eilmann?
What Book of the Bible is knowledge of the law traced back to?
What two women refused to commit perjury in the Book of Exodus?
What dilemma is a good example of perjury?
Cristian Bay's encyclopedia concludes that civil disobedience does not only include what behavior?
What dictionary contains a non- violent definition?
What other terminology is considered much more destructive?
People behaving with civil disobedience that is not-violent is said to make society have more of what?
Debates about civil disobedience include or exclude what major practice? 
What type of civil disobedience is commonly accepted?
When violence is used, what is civil disobedience sometimes called?
What is one result of civil rebellion?
Why is it preferred that civil disobedience is non violent?
What action by Christian Bay helps a society tolerate civil disobedience?
What is one thing that rebellion must have in Black's Law Dictionary?
What does rebellion require in Christian Bay's encyclopedia?
What does Black's Law Dictionary say that rebellion doesn't have to be?
What is the result of rebellion according to Black's Law Dictionary?
What is it called when there is an active attempt to overthrow a government or belief system?
What group of people performed revolutionary civil disobedience toward the Austrian government?
The Hungarians performed this civil disobedience under the direction of what person?
Revolutionary civil disobedience towards culture is highlighted by example of who? 
What other topics can Civil disobedience pertain to?
What is a simple form of civil disobedience?
Why would a person chose civil disobedience against specific laws?
What is the goal of individual civil disobedience?
What type of civil disobedience is larger scale?
What famous Indian's actions were considered civil disobedience?
What does non-revolutionary civil disobedience want to overthrow?
What does an individual conscience not have to be?
What did Ghandi mention about the right to abolish an unjust government in The Declaration of Independence?
What did Ghandi think that using your conscience accomplished?
What did Harvey Wheeler direct the Hungarians to do?
When did the earliest examples of civil disobedience as a whole occur?
What did the Jewish people do so pagan items wouldn't be in the temple of Jerusalem?
Since Thoreau was not a well known writer what happened when he was arrested?
What position did the tax collector that arrested Thoreau get?
When was Thoreau's essay published?
When is the oldest recorded incident of civil disobedience?
What was the goal of this Roman disobedience?
What is a recent civil disobedience done in a group form?
What is the civil disobedience called where people refuse to be released?
How long did it take for Thoreau's disobedience to be known?
What took place during the Mexian War?
What did tax collectors try to prevent from being installed in the Temple?
What do those in political office refuse to sign when involved in civil disobedience?
How was the event covered when Jews were arrested by tax collectors?
When was the essay written by modern activists published?
Civil disobedients have chosen many different kinds of what type of behaviors?
Bedau notes that illegal protests towards public policy may serve as what purpose?
What group of civil disobedients brought medicine to Iraq without the permission of the government?
How long did Julia Butterfly Hill live in a tree?
What was the outcome of living in the California Redwood tree?
What type of actions are taken sometimes in civil disobedience?
What is an example of illegal disobedience?
Such protests are usually considered to be what type?
What type of goals are usually done skirting the law?
Who lived in a tree to prevent it from being cut down as a form of civil disobedience?
How long did Julia Butterfly Hill live near a nuclear-missile installation?
What did Bedau live in to prevent it from being cut down?
What do symbolic protests accomplish according to Julia Butterfly HIll?
What company was Bedau a part of while breaking the law by bringing medicine to Iraq?
What is an example of an ineffective and absurd act according to Julia Butterfly Hill?
What was Joseph Haas arrested for?
What did Joseph Haas say in his email?
Civil disobedience can occur when people speak about a certain topic that is deemed as?
WBAI's broadcasting Some of George Carlin's comedy eventually led to what?
What year did the the case go before the supreme court?
What is one criminal behavior that is hard to stop by authorities?
What is one way to use pure speech to reach as much people as possible to protest?
How can you protest against the government in an individual way?
What is one way of digital civil disobedience that can have far reaching consequences?
What did George Carlin send to the city council in New Hampshire?
What did George Carlin tell the city council to do in New Hampshire?
What happened to George Carlin after he sent the e-mail?
What court case was eventually the result of Joseph Haas sending and e-mail to the New Hampshire city council?
How can you protest against WBAI and its policies as an individual?
Boycotting, refusing to pay taxes, sit ins, and draft dodging all make what harder?
Name one way the Plowshares organization temporarily close GCSB Waihopai?
Name the other way that the Plowshares organization temporarily closed?
Brownlee argues that sometimes people behave in what way to have their issue heard?
When large groups of people all boycott a system or don't pay taxes it can be considered?
What is a type of disobedience against the federal government?
What side effect of these type of protests is unfortunate?
What goal do many of these protests have?
How can you protest against big companies in a non violent way?
What did denial of service attacks make it harder for The Plowshares organization to do?
What is using moral dialogue considered when not following the law?
What action did Brownlee take against GCSB Waihopai that caused them to close temporarily?
What method does the government use to get their issue heard?
Why does the government restrain itself when engaging in disobedience?
What type of government investigations apply to civil disobedience?
What is a way you can show police officers civil disobedience ?
What should be avoided when talking to authorities?
What reasons cause failure of the disobedience with authorities?
Why do some people purposely resist officers of the law?
What applies to both collecting taxes and searching property?
Why do some people find it hard to not talk to a tax agent?
Who do some tax agents want to make and impression on during an arrest?
What does someone diagnosed as a maniac need to decide  when dealing with police?
What did Thoreau believe about talking to police officers?
What do some civil disobedient people feel the need to acknowledge.
Why is the need for acceptance of punishment needed?
What do some people protest against?
What is the group called that does not agree with government at all?
Anarchists do not want to accept punishment for what reason?
Why do anarchists want to accept punishment?
What do anarchists accept about the role of government?
While anarchists favor government, what don't they believe in?
What do anarchists feel they must accept as a consequence of their actions in breaking the law?
Why does government exist according to anarchists?
What is an important personal decision for civil disobedients?
Which duty do some people believe civil disobedients have?
Why would one plead guilty to a crime involving civil disobedience?
Which reason is given sometimes to plead not guilty involving these matters?
What third type of plea uses creative words?
What group needs to decide if they should make a creative plea or not?
What is a no contest plea the same as?
What do some people think ACT UP's duty should be when caught?
What do people pleading no contest believe about defending themselves?
A plea of no contest is a compromose between a creative plea and pleading what?
Where in Las Vegas did a famous protest take place?
What was the civil disobedience performed at the test site?
What was the result of the disobedience protesting the nuclear site?
How did their lawyer suggest they would plea?
What type of sentences were the protesters given?
What was sponsored by Francis Heisler in August 1957?
Where did Francis Heisler plan to have her protest?
How many missles were at the nuclear test site?
Where was Francis Heisler taken after the protest?
What sentence was Francis Heisler given when she was found guilty?
Why do some people chose to go to jail for their disobedience?
Going to jail accomplished what goal of civil disobedience?
What is the most important item for civil disobedience to follow through?
Why should one not go to jail?
What are two reasons Conservatives went to jail?
What is the main point of being a Conservative and protesting?
What does Howard Zinn believe should be removed?
What does following the rules help to preserve with a protest?
What does being a Conservative do to the seriousness of a protest?
What type of punishment is sometimes offered to civil disobedients?
What is usually the goal of taking a plea bargain?
When many people are arrested, what is a common tactic negotiating?
What type of plea is sometimes taken as an act of disobedience?
Which famous Indian took a plea and put himself at the mercy of the courts?
What did the prosecution propose in Ghandi's trial?
What group decided to enter a blind plea without any jailtime?
What did Ghandi decide to use so that everyone would have the same deal?
How did the Camden 28 decide to submit themselves to the court after pleading guilty?
How did the Camden 28 describe their actions to the court?
What way do some people perform civil disobedience in a constructive way?
Why would one want to give a speech?
Why is giving a defiant speech sometimes more harmful for the individual?
Why would one want to give more punishment?
What type of treatment do civil disobedients usually receive?
What do some government officials give in response to illegal actions?
Why did the Navy give a speech in court?
By how much did the Navy increase the defendant's sentence?
What did speeches given by the Navy mention about their treatment by protesters?
In the US v. Burgos-Andujar, why was a member of the Navy's sentence increased?
What is the primary goal of pleading not guilty when arrested for Civil Disobedience?
What is a secondary goal of pleading not guilty?
What would someone who is civilly disobedient do in court?
What US war has a large amount of Civil Disobedients?
What can sympathetic Jurors in cases with civil disobedients?
What defense was used by Steven Barkan?
What kind of press coverage is there when defendants plead not guilty?
What is the main goal of trying to get jury nullification during trial?
What plea was entered in the case the US v. Dougherty?
What did the judge have to let the jurors know about in the Chicago Eight case?
What needs to be avoided with civil disobedience?
Why should disobedience by the general public be avoided?
What is one main reason that civil disobedience is not recognized?
Why should someone not commit a crime when they are protesting?
For what reason would someone avoid crimes while protesting?
What does a great amount of self-gratification undermine?
What should happen if you focus only on self-gratification?
What is one reason securing an amendment of the law is not recognized?
What does being conscientious toward the law lead to?
Why should winning your case be avoided by the public?
What is violating a law which is not the goal of the protest called?
When the law is a direct target of the protest, what is this called?
What US war caused a high amount of civil disobedience?
What type of defense is sometimes used in court by protestors?
Why are people who distribute leaflets inside courthouses not been arrested?
What does indirect civil disobedience protest a law by doing?
What does direct civil disobedience do to the law that isn't being protested?
Who passed out educational leaflets in courtrooms during the Vietnam War?
What did Carter Wentworth hand out in court to escape prosecution?
If he was arrested, what would happen to the leaflets that were handed out by Carter Wentworth in court
What is the main goal of criminal punishment of civil disobedients?
What should be the main goal of not using punishment in a just system?
Who decides the fate of protesters most of the time?
What should the punishment rely on instead in a just society?
What is a major reason judges use morality against crime?
What does focusing on morality help a judge to achieve?
Who decides if a law is moral?
What is the most important thing when deciding if a law is moral?
On what grounds is a law judged to be moral?
What is the process of constructing a building or infrastructure?
What typically involves mass production of similar items without a designated purchaser?
What percentile of gross domestic product is construction comprised of?
What three things are needed for construction to take place?
Construction takes place on location for who?
What involves limited production with a designated purchase? 
What usually takes place on location for an unknown client?
What does comprise 69 percent of?
What three things are recommended before construction begins?
Where does manufacturing take place?
How much of a developed countries GDP does manufacturing comprise?
What involves mass production of similar items without designated planning?
How long does the process of manufacturing continue?
What three things do you need for manufacturing to happen?
Who normally manages a construction job?
Who normally supervises a construction job?
What is essential for the successful execution of a project?
The largest construction projects are known as what?
Zoning requirements, environmental impact, budgeting, and logistics are things who should consider?
What is primarily and independent effort?
What does a constuction engineer manage?
What is the term for any large construction project?
What is seldom considered by those involved with the design and execution of infatructure?
What requires collaboration across zoning requirements?
Who normally manages the environmental impact of the job?
Who normally supervises inconvenience to the public?
What is the largest infrastructure in question referred to?
What is necessary for successfully completing  bidding on a project?
What are the three sectors of construction?
Building construction is usually further divided into what categories?
Infrastructure is often called what?
Large public works, dams, bridges, highways, water/wastewater and utility distribution are under what construction sector?
Refineries, process chemical, power generation, mills and manufacturing plants are under what sector of construction?
What are buildings, stuctures and industrial?
What type of constuction is eivided into private and public buildings?
What sector includes large public works but not utility distribution?
What sector include utility distribution and refineries?
What three sectors of public works are there?
How is utility distribution further divided?
What are refineries often called?
What are some examples of markets?
What can residential and non-residential also be broken into?
What is Engineering News-Record?
What compiles and reports on data about the size of design and construction companies?
In what year did ENR compile data in nine market segments?
ENR used data on what to rank Top 400 firms as heavy contractors?
What is a trade magazine for design industry?
Who reports on the size of havy equipment and construction coompanies?
What US companies are compiled in the Top-250
How are the largest global firms picked for the Top-40 list?
What did ENR compile in 2004?
What is a magazine for design companies?
What do global firms report on for the construction industry?
What is one thing that market segments publish?
What does  a list of top 250 transportation markets published show?
In what year did the largest companies in the US compile data on nine market segments?
What are the three construction subsectors?
There are other categories for what?
What has a classification system for construction companies?
What are construction managers?
What are the three building subsectors?
What Classification system is newer than the North American Industry Classification System?
Who has a classification system for all North American companies?
Who manages construction projects and assumes financial responsibility for completing them?
What systems classify trade contractors?
How are the differences in engineering  recognized?
What three construction subsectors are firms managing construction projects divided into?
What does heavy and civil engineering construction not do when managing projects?
Who has a system for companies that have financial responsibility of completing a project?
What is the process of adding structure to real property or construction of buildings?
The majority of building construction jobs are what?
Who acts as laborer, paymaster, and design team for a renovation project?
What are some examples of undesirable end results of a project?
What do those in the field do to ensure a positive outcome?
What do new homes comprise the majority of?
What are common outcomes of a project?
What do people with experience not need to do?
What does the forman act as besides paymaster?
What do common elements often act as?
What is the process of adding detailed plans and careful oversight?
What are most detailed plans in construction?
What elements make up a room edition?
What are some examples of legal considerations for an addition?
Residential construction practices, technologies, and resources must conform to what?
What generally dictates the construction materials used?
Residential construction can generate what is not carefully planned?
Site conditions, local regulations, economies of scale and the availability of skilled tradespeople all affect what?
What must local regulations conform to?
What do custom designed homes dictate in the area?
What are some conditions that make the availability of skilled tradespeople vary?
What effect do technologies and resources generate?
What needs to happen to prevent building authority regulations?
New techniques of building construction are being researched, made possible by advances in what?
Building printing is making it possible to flexibly construct small commercial buildings and private habitations in what amount of time?
Dutch architect Janjaap Ruijssenaars's performative architecture 3D-printed building is scheduled to be built when?
Working versions of 3D-printing building technology are already printing how much building material per hour?
What is Janjaap Ruijssenaar going to build in 2013?
What makes research in built-in plumbing possible?
What is flexible construction similar to?
How long does it take to build electrical facilities?
As of 2014 how quickly is building material being printed?
Construction involves the translation of what?
A formal design team may be assembled to do what?
The design team is most commonly employed by who?
Who provides the bill of quantities?
The owner typically awards a contract to who?
What does a quantity surveyor do with a design? 
What group prepares the bid for work?
Who does the owner award  a bill of quantities to?
What  are construction companies asked to plan?
The modern trend in design is toward integration of what?
Even in large firms, architects, interior designers, engineers, developers, construction managers, and general contractors were more likely to be what?
In modern times, firms may offer themselves as what for a construction project?
What kind of contract is given when the contractor is given a performance specification and must undertake the project from design to construction, while adhering to the performance specifications?
What is the trend in skills among architects?
What types of employees does and interior design firm usually have?
What do engineers offer themselves as for a project?
What is a description of an associated company contract?
What groups were previously considered to be integrated?
What project structures assist the owner in integration?
These project structures allow the owner to integrate the services of who throughout the design and construction?
Many construction companies are now placing more emphasis on what?
What do partnering and construction management emphasize for the design-build process?
What helps the owner in design and construction?
Who's services do construction services integrate through design and construction?
What helps the interior designers during integration?
Because of integration what are growing beyond services of architects?
What can construction projects suffer from?
What is an underbid?
When do cash flow problems exist?
What financial issue is notoriously prevalent in the construction field?
What can a contingency plan suffer from?
What issue is common in the financial planning field?
What is one reason a labour problem happens and can't be funded?
What guarantees a solid cash flow is in place before a project to assure its completion?
What describes when a builder doesn't ask for adequate safeguards?
Who are likely participants in creating an overall plan for the financial management of the building construction project?
The presence of who is highly likely even in small projects?
Who studies the expected monetary flow over the life of the project and to monitor the payouts throughout the process?
Who applies expertise to relate the work and materials involved to a proper valuation?
Cost overruns with government projects have occurred when the contractor did what?
What do mortgage bankers study regarding the project?
What is eliminated after the equity in the property?
Proper valuations happened in a government project because of what by the owner?
Who's presence is likely in the initial bid?
What is an obvious source for cost engineers?
What must a project adhere to?
Constructing a project that fails to adhere to codes does not benefit whom?
What is malum in se considerations?
What are malum prohibitum considerations?
Who may seek changes or exemptions in the law that governs the land where the building will be built?
What must an attorney adhere to?
Who doesn't benefit when a project doesn't follow a residential district?
What do exemptions come from that prevent bad things?
What is one way an attorney tries to get a business district changed?
What does a custom or expectation do to affect a building before its built?
What is a complex net of contracts and other legal obligations?
What is the exchange of a set of obligations between two or more parties?
What does the time element in construction mean?
Contracts must be designed to ensure what?
What leads to confusion and collapse?
What is a net of projects and other legal exchanges?
What is the time element in construction between two or more parties?
When there is a side that agrees to a lot for a little what happens to the cost?
How must expectations be formed to keep costs down?
What do bad time elements lead to?
A growing number of new forms of procurement involves what?
What is PPP?
What is a PPP also known as?
Focus on what is to ameliorate the many problems that arise from the often highly competitive and adversarial practices within the construction industry.
What does the focus on forms of procurement try to prevent?
What relationship do finance initiatives involve?
Who is the emphasis on when there is a private finance initiative?
What is an example of adversarial practices that involve partnering?
What forms of procurement happen within the construction industry?
In the most common construction procurement, who acts as the project coordinator?
Whose role is to design the works, prepare the specifications and produce construction drawings, administer the contract, tender the works, and manage the works from inception to completion
There are direct contractual links between who?
Any subcontractor has a direct contractual relationship with who?
The procedure continues until what?
What continues until the building is well established and recognized?
With common construction procurement, what does the main contractor act as?
What are three things the role of the main contractor is?
How are the client and subcontractor linked?
What is the relationship between the architect and the subcontractor?
Who produces a list of requirements for a project, giving an overall view of the project's goals?
Who presents different ideas about how to accomplish goals?
Who selects and hires the best ideas and appropriate contractors?
Who is usually working together?
What happens as they build phase 1?
What does the contractor produce to let everyone see the project's goals?
What does the owner produce to show how to attain the goals?
Before they hire a contractor, what do the D&B contractors also do about a project?
Who is usually hired for a design-bid-build contract?
What happens in a phase 2 contract?
Who is required to verify and have existing utility lines marked?
Having existing utility lines marked lessens the likelihood of what?
What are some existing facilities?
Who inspects the building periodically to ensure that the construction adheres to the approved plans and the local building code?
What is issued once construction is complete and a final inspection has been passed?
What happens before the foundation is dug and when a final inspection is passed?
What do building inspectors do about utility lines?
What does digging a foundation prevent damage to?
What do contractors look to ensure during building construction?
What do contractors inspect during building construction?
What is the annual construction industry revenue in 2014?
How much revenue is private?
How many firms were existing in 2005?
The average contractor hired how many employees?
How many women were employed in construction in 2011?
What was the unemployment rate as of 2011?
According to 1 million contractors  what was the annual revenue in 2014?
In 2005 how many employees were employed by the government?
How many firms were there in 2011?
In the US how many contractors were employed in construction as of 2011?
What is the average construction salary in the Middle East?
What is the average construction salary in the UK?
Where have some workers made more than $100,000?
In 2010 what did the average earning for a professional show?
What do construction workers with 14 years of experience earn in the Middle East?
What to architects in the US/Canada earn yearly?
What do job types and levels of experience show in the results?
What is not due to the average earning for a professional?
What is one of the most dangerous occupations in the world?
What is the most common cause of injury on site?
What are other major fatality causes?
What can curtail the risk of occupational injuries in the construction industry?
What is one of the most common occupations in the world?
In the EU in 2009, what was the fatal injury rate among construction workers?
What is one thing that can prevent non-fatal injuries?
What procedures can lower the injury rate among construction workers in the EU?
What are other common causes of fatalities in dangerous occupations in the world?
Along with non-governmental and nonstate schools, what is another name for private schools?
Along with sport and art, what is a type of talent scholarship?
Rather than taxation, what are private schools largely funded by?
What right do private schools have that public schools don't?
What is another name for a public school?
What kind of taxation funds private schools?
What can help a student get a scholarship for a public school?
What are two reasons a student would be able to get a scholarship for a public school?
What are public schools allowed to do to retain talented students?
What is the yearly cost of some notable prep schools in New England?
What are private schools that charge no tuition called?
Along with Canada and the United Kingdom, what country generally doesn't refer to universities as private schools?
What region does use the term 'private schools' to refer to universities?
How much does it cost yearly to go to a UK university?
What is the term private school restricted to in the US?
When is the term private school never used in the US?
What are schools called that don't charge tuition in Austraila?
What term does the UK, Australia and Canada always use when referring to universities?
What is another term for year 12 of education?
What is another term used for year 13?
What is another term for university-preparatory schools?
Along with location, endowment and the willingness of parents to pay, what factor influences private school tuition?
Who receives higher salaries at private schools that charge higher tuition?
What is another term used for library?
What is  another term used for science lab?
What is the tuititon used for at military academies?
What ameneties are available when you are enrolled at a military academy?
What religion's schools does the term 'parochial schools' generally refer to?
Along with Muslims, Jews and Protestant Christians, what religious group notably operates private schools?
What type of education is sometimes present at religious schools in addition to the secular curriculum?
What category are schools put into that maintain a line between academics and religion?
What do all Roman Catholic schools teach?
Why were Roman Catholic schools founded?
What method do Muslim run schools use in their curriculum?
What power is available to Australian private schools but generally not present in public schools?
What is an example of an article of uniform clothing typically present in Australian private schools?
What is the comparison in price between Australian private schools versus public?
What kind of status comes with going to a public school in Australia?
How well are teachers paid in public schools in Australia?
What kind of education is offered in public schools in Australia?
What tool do they use in public school to maintain discipline?
What part of a uniform must you wear if you go to public school in Australia?
Along with the Anglican Church and Uniting Church, what religious denomination operates private schools in Australia?
What denomination operates St Joseph's College?
Where is St Aloysius' College located?
Who attends Loreto Normanhurst?
What denomination insists that students must also be a member of the founding church?
What category do all Catholic schools fall into?
Where is St. Gregory's College located?
What three churches have colleges in Sydney?
What do all grammar schools insist their students have in order to attend?
What article of the Grundgesetz grants the right to make private schools?
The prospect of what event compelled the protection of German private schools?
What percentage of German students attended private schools in 2008?
What was the percentage of Germans attending private high schools in 2008?
In 1992, what percentage of East German students attended private schools?
In what article does it give Gleichschaltung the right to create private schools?
When can the right to create private schools be taken away in other countries?
Why was the protection of private schools implemented in 1992?
What percentage of students in Grundgesetz attended private schools in 2008?
What percentage of students attended private schools in Grundgesetz in 1992?
What is the German term for segregating students based on their parents' wealth?
What do Germans call private schools?
How does the level of tuition in German private schools compare to private schools in other Western European countries?
Who runs the Sonderungsverbot?
What kind of school is a Sonderungsverbot?
What kind of diploma is given when graduating from a Sonderungsverbot?
What do Sonderungsverbot not have when trying to operate without regulation?
What kind of tuition is charged if you enroll in a Sonderungsverbot?
What are private secondary schools in Germany called?
What types of schools are most ergänzungsschulen?
How are ergänzungsschulen funded?
Along with private individuals and organizations, what groups sometimes runs ergänzungsschulen?
What are public schools called in Germany?
What are most public schools not a part of?
What do public schools operate outside of in Germany?
How are public schools funded?
What group will rarely run a public school?
What is the term for an Indian private school?
Along with the CISCE and NENBSE, what is a notable Examination Board in multiple Indian states?
How many Examination Boards exist in India?
What body in India provides policy directions to schools?
What are government schools also called in India?
What two categories can a government school be put into in India?
What do the CBSE and the CISCe both have the power to govern?
How many independent schools are in India?
For what certificate does the legislature conduct examinations?
Along with trusts, what other non-profits are allowed to run schools in India?
What country has the most illiterate adults in the world?
What is the full name of the ASER?
What is the purpose of the ASER?
In private schools, what language are classes taught in?
Who can legally teach English in India?
What do government schools have to do to be able to teach English?
What is happening to the number of government schools in rural India?
What did the ASER report show about how people feel about private schools?
What does poor academic achievement lead to according to critics?
What is the Irish term for private schools?
How do private schools in Ireland differ from most?
What is the typical annual cost for an Irish private school?
Along with the Congregation of Christian Brothers, what is a notable religious group that runs fee-paying schools in Ireland?
What might the fees to attend an Irish boarding school rise to?
What is the Irish term for school fees?
How do private schools in the rest of the world differ from Ireland?
How are school fees in the rest of the world compared to Ireland?
What certificates must private schools worldwide work towards?
What is the average private school fee worldwide?
In what year did Malaysia receive its independence?
What language is used in Chinese primary schools in Malaysia?
What language is used in Chinese secondary schools in Malaysia?
What is the name of the post-independence government school system in Malaysia?
As a result of a compromise, about how many Chinese schools became National Type schools?
In what year did China institute English-medium schools?
How many people protested the school assimilation program in Malaysia?
What happened to schools after Chinese independence in 1957?
What type of schools would they have in China as a compromise after Chinese independence?
Who did the lands belong to in China after the school compromise?
What is a term for schools that receive government assistance?
How are 'un-aided' schools different from 'aided' schools?
Where is Galaxy Public School located?
In Nepalese private schools, what is the primary language of instruction?
In addition to English, what language is also often taught in Nepalese private schools?
What type of familiy sends their children to preschool?
What is the standard of living for most families in Kathmandu?
What name is typically associated with preschool?
What are boarding schools that teach English called?
What group fully funds preschool?
How many private schools existed in New Zealand in April 2014?
In April 2014, how many New Zealand students attended private schools?
What percentage of New Zealand students attended private schools in April 2014?
What religion's schools were integrated into New Zealand public schools between 1979 and 1984?
What city, along with Hamilton, Wellington and Christchurch, is one of the largest in New Zealand?
As of 1970, how many private schools were in New Zealand?
How many private school students were there in 1979?
How much of the student population went to private schools in 1984?
What has happened to private school numbers since 2014?
Why have private schools been in decline since 2014?
What denomination is the Diocesan School for Girls in Auckland affiliated with?
Where is Samuel Marsden Collegiate School located?
What denomination is associated with Saint Kentigern College?
In what city is Rangi Ruru Girls' School?
What group operates St Dominic's College in Wanganui?
How is St Andrew's College run?
What is operated by Academic Colleges Group in Wanganui?
What Catholic society in Wanganui is affiliated with Academic Colleges Group?
What denomination are the schools run by Academic Colleges Group?
How many affiliates are connected to the ACG New Zealand International College?
What percentage of Filipino primary school students are in private schools?
In the Philippines, what percentage of secondary school students attend private schools?
What percentage of Filipino tertiary education takes place in private schools?
In what month and year was the revised Manual of Regulations for Private Schools released?
Along with English and mathematics, what subject replaced values education for fourth year students?
What percentage of students enroll in public primary school in the Philippines?
What is lower in public schools rather than private ones?
What have government regulations given public schools recently?
When did the Philippines start teaching English at the primary level in public school?
What is the name of the scheme that provides tuition and fee assistance to students due to excess enrollment?
What stipend do students enrolled in priority courses receive?
What aid is available to underprivileged students seeking to attend a private university?
Why would students be turned away from non-degree programmes?
How does The Tuition Fee Suppliment help high school students?
What does The Private Education Student Financial Assistance help current high school students who are turned away do?
What program provides financial assistance for tuition and fees for a college or technical education?
What does the government provide for students turned away from priority courses?
What South African law recognized two types of schools?
In what year was the South African Schools Act passed?
Along with public schools, what type of school was recognized under the South African Schools Act?
In South Africa, along with privately governed schools, what schools are classified as independent?
In what century did missionaries notably establish church schools in South Africa?
In what century was apartheid abolished?
What did missionaries cause to become law in 1996?
How did Africa becoming independent change the laws about missionaries coming to Africa?
In what century was South Africa established as a country?
What has happened to the public education sector when managed by the government?
After apartheid, what types of schools are referred to as "Model C" schools?
How do academic results in former Model C schools compare to other schools?
How do the fees at former Model C schools compare to those at other schools?
What school option were parents of minority children given to convert to?
What was abolished during the apartheid era?
What term is used for schools who accept only black children?
What kind of acedemic results do schools that only accept black children produce?
What do only white children have to pay when they go to school?
As of 2008, about what percentage of Swedish students attended private schools?
About many students attend Kunskapsskolan schools?
How many people work for Kunskapsskolan schools?
What is the English translation of Kunskapsskolan?
What school model is Sweden notable for?
How many Swedish students were enrolled in public school in 2008?
How many people have worked with Barack Obama who are from Sweden?
What is the Swedish word for school voucher?
What opportunity did Barack Obama support for Swedish children?
How many school vouchers were issued by Sweden in 2008?
Up to what age do students in the United Kingdom attend preparatory schools?
What schools do preparatory schools prepare British children to attend?
What percentage of British children are educated at GSCE level in fee-paying schools?
At A-level, what percentage of British students attend fee-paying schools?
What is the upper range of annual fees for non-boarding students in British public schools?
Who do preparatory schools in Scotland prepare to enter public schools?
What percentage of children educated in Scotland are at independent schools?
At what level are 13% of children in Scottish independent schools?
What type of school is becoming less common in Scotland?
What is the highest range a student would pay when boarding  in a Scottish school?
What court case desegregated schools in the United States?
What is a derogatory term for the Christian academies that arose in the wake of school desegregation?
In what part of the United States did many students migrate to Christian academies during the desegregation period?
What was the primary race of students attending Christian academies after the Brown decision?
School desegregation in the United States led to an increased number of students of what ethnicity in public schools?
What court case desegregated schools in 1970?
How quickly were Christian academies supposed to be segregated?
What was organized by local families before the Supreme Court case went to court?
What kind of curriculum did public schools focus on for white students?
Numbers of what race of students increased in public schools before 1954?
Along with tuition, scholarships, vouchers, donations and grants, where does funding for private schools come from?
What amendment to the United States Constitution governs government funding of religious schools?
What state constitutional amendments make reference to the government funding religious schools?
Granting what status would allow private non-religious schools in the US to receive public funds?
What body would determine that funding for course content is forbidden?
What is course content funding subject to?
Why would course content funding be restricted by the courts?
What can be interpreted by individuals to determine if funding for course content is forbidden?
How is course content provided to a private school?
What was the first US state to have compulsory education?
In what year did Massachusetts first require children to be educated in schools?
In what year was Wisconsin v. Yoder decided at the Supreme Court?
What is the citation for the Pierce v. Society of Sisters case?
Who was the opposing party in the Runyon case?
What became compulsory in Massachusetts in 1976?
What was the first state to have set educational standards?
Educators support educational choice as long as what happens?
Who was part of the case with Wisconsin in 1976?
What other person was involved in the case with Runyon in 1972?
About how much did a New York City day school cost annually in 2012?
What would a parent have to pay to send their child to a boarding school in 2012?
What notable private school has an endowment of several hundred million dollars?
In addition to endowments and tuition, how do boarding schools cover their operating costs?
How much did the Groton School charge per student for tuition in 2012?
Where do most students at the Groton School come from?
How many applicants does the Groton School have each year?
In what city is the Groton School located?
What were the operating expenses of the Groton School in 2012?
What individual is the school named after?
When did the undergraduate program become coeducational?
What was the name of the leader through the Great Depression and World War II?
What organization did Harvard found in 1900?
What president of the university transformed it into a modern research university?
What distinction does Radcliffe College have among universities?
Who went to Radcliffe and was trained there as students in its early days?
When was Radcliffe's curriculum secularized?
What had Radcliffe been transformed into by the 19th century?
Who was President of Radcliffe from 1869-1909?
What is the worlds largest academic and private library system?
How many individual libraries make up the main school library?
How many volumes are contained in the library?
How many US presidents are alumni of the school?
How many Nobel Laureates are among the school alumni?
What is the cost of living near Harvard?
Where can tourists go when they visit Cambridge?
How many public libraries are there in Cambridge?
How many US Presidents once campaigned in Cambridge?
How many billionaires are now living in Cambridge?
What is the major US city that the is the university located?
What is the size of the school's endowment?
What river is located in the vicinity of the school?
How many academic units make up the school?
What is the name of the area that the main campus is centered in Cambridge?
How much did it cost to build Harvard Stadium?
How many academic units make up Radcliffe?
How large is the Allston neighborhood in Boston?
Where is the Longwood Medical area located?
How many sports are played at the athletics facilites?
In what year was the school formed?
What organization arranged to founding of school?
What year was North America's first printing press started?
In what year was the school renamed as Harvard College?
In what year was the charter granted for Harvard Corporation?
What was the ship of John of London called?
What did the Court of the Massachusetts Bay Colony vote for John Harvard to have in 1650?
Who founded Cambridge in 1650?
When did John of London come to live in Cambridge?
What university was John of London an alum of?
Ministers of what faith were trained by the university in early years?
After what higher learning model was the school designed?
Was the school officially associated with any denomination?
What group was trained at Cambridge in 1643?
In what year was Cambridge founded?
What was the purpose of Cambridge when it was founded in 1643?
What profession did many graduates of Cambridge become in 1643?
What churches were the graduates of Cambridge affiliated with after 1643?
In what year did Harvard President Joseph Willard die?
What liberal succeeded Joseph Willard as president?
In what year was Henry Ware elected to chair?
In what year did Henry Ware die?
What happened after Henry Ware and Samuel Webber died?
In what year was David Tappan elected to the chair?
When did Calvinist parties and traditional ideas come to dominate universities?
What denomination was the Hollis Professor of Divinity connected to?
in 1846 who's natural history lectures were acclaimed in New York and Harvard?
Agassiz's approach to science combined observation and what?
Common Sense Realism of what Scottish philosophers did Agassiz incorporate in his dual view of knowedge?
Where were the writings of Plato acclaimed in 1846?
What was Plato's approach considered?
What did Plato's perspective on science combine?
What was the assumption behind Plato's writings?
What evidence did Plato use to explain life-forms?
What president eliminated the Christian position in the curriculum?
What conviction motivated Eliot to move towards secularization?
From whom were the movement that Eliot followed derived?
During what years was William Ellery Channing President of Harvard?
When Channing eliminated Christianity from its former position in the curriculum what was allowed instead?
Channing was the most crucial figure to achieve what in US universities?
What ideas motivated Channing to remove Christianity as dominant in college curriculum?
What did Christianity in US curriculum focus on before it was changed?
Who lead the school back to leading research institution in 2oth century?
How was the school able to bring aboard the best talented students?
In what year of 20th century, did Harvard release an important document about education in America?
Who had a main goal of attracting the wealthy to Harvard?
What would it guarantee for Harvard if they attracted wealthy students?
What was college considered a vehicle of for the wealthy in 1945?
What did Conant develop to attract wealthy students to the school in 1933?
What is one thing that wealthy students needed when they first came to Harvard in 1945?
What was the ratio of men to women at Harvard/Radcliffe?
In what year did Harvard and Radcliffe admissions merge?
What was the trend of female student population from 1970s and deyond?
During what period were women not banned from being admitted to Radcliffe?
What college was founded during World War II?
What happened to Radcliffe's graduate schools during WWII?
During what period did Radcliffe become prominent as a university?
How many campuses affiliated with Harvard existed in 1977?
How far from state house in downtown Boston is Harvard Yard?
How many residential dorms house upper class, sophomore, Jr, and Sr students?
Along what geographic feature are nine residential houses located?
How far from the Yard is the Quad located?
How many acres of land is the State House situated on?
What neighborhood is Edward Harkness formerly from?
Who were formerly housed at Sever Hall?
Why did Radcliffe College students stop residing at Sever Hall?
Where is the office of Edward Harkness located?
Where is Harvard stadium located?
What is the name of the bridge that joins parts of the campus of the Charles River?
Where are the Harvard medical, Dental and school of Public Health located?
What is the name of the bridge over the Longwood Medical and Academic area?
How wide of an area does the Charles River run through?
How many miles will a person walk when they cross the John W. Weeks Bridge?
What is the circumference of Harvard Stadium?
What medical school is located in Allston?
How much more land does the school own in Allston than Cambridge?
What are some proposals to connect campuses?
What additional benefits are there to surrounding community of expansion?
What has Cambridge purchased in Allston?
Why has Cambridge purchased land in Allston?
How much land does Cambridge own in Allston?
Who does Cambridge say the expansion will benefit?
What infrastructure will be improved in Storrow Drive?
What is the total number of professors, instructors, and lecturers at Harvard?
What is the enrollment of undergraduates at Harvard?
How many graduate students does Harvard have?
When was the color crimson adopted at Harvard as official color?
What year is the earliest traces of the color Crimson at Harvard?
When did The Harvard Crimson publish its first issue?
How many people were at a Harvard sponsored regatta in 1875?
How many people usually go to see Harvard sports teams play each year?
How many students did Charles William Eliot teach throughout his tenure at Harvard?
What did Eliot handing out The Harvard Crimson at a regatta do for the school in 1875?
What was the Harvard endowment total in 2011?
How great were the losses suffered in the the financial crisis of 2008-09 to Harvard endowment?
What project did Harvard halt due to the financial crisis?
What are Harvard's Pell grant reserves?
What is Harvard's total financial aid reserves?
What amount did Harvard cut from their 2012 financial aid reserve?
How much did Forbes donate to charity in 2009?
How much of a loss did Forbes suffer in 2008?
What did Forbes halt the construction of in 2008?
What did local residents do when Forbes announced budget cuts in 2011?
When was the divestment from South Africa movement? 
What South African Vice Consul did Harvard students blockade the speech of? 
By how much did Harvard management reduce its South Africa holdings in response to pressure?
In what year did South African Vice Consul Duke Kent-Brown take office?
What was erected in South Africa by Duke Kent-Brown to protest Harvard?
What did Kent-Brown do to interrupt a speech by Harvard?
What amount of money did Kent-Brown have invested in Harvard?
By how much did Kent-Brown reduce his investment in Harvard?
What is the applicant admission rate for class of 2019?
In what year did Harvard end its early admission program?
Why did Harvard end its early admission program?
In what year was an early admission program reintroduced?
How is admission to the Early Action program characterized?
What acceptance rate does the Early Action program have for 2019?
What rank does the Early Action program have among all others?
When did the Carnegie Foundation start managing statistics for university admissions?
What applicants does the Carnegie Foundation want to have more support for?
Between 1978 an d2008 four year full time undergraduate students were required to complete how many classes outside of their concentration?
Post 2008 undergraduate students are required to complete how many general education classes towards degree?
What criticism in NY times article that impacts the quality of Education at Harvard?
How many classes outside of their concentration did the Carnegie Foundation require in 2007?
What kind of enrollments did the Ethical Reasoning program have in 2007?
What kind of focus has the Ethical Reasoning program had since 2007?
Since 1978 how many courses have students in the Ethical Reasoning program needed to take?
Who does the Carnegie Foundation depend on for some aspects of undergraduate education?
What is the duration of Harvard Academic year?
How many courses must undergraduates maintain for full time status?
What are the top 4-5% graduating students honored with?
From 2004 to 2005 Harvard reduced the number of students earning Latin honors from 90% to what?
What does a basic program also require?
What percentage of the student body is accepted to the Phi Beta Kappa honor society each year?
What percentage of the student body was affected by grade inflation in 2004?
What increased about Harvard's student body in 2005?
What two honors were given out more frequently in 2005?
What is tuition for 2012 - 13 year at Harvard? 
What is the total cost of attendance in 2012-13?
After 2007 how much do student from families earning less than $60,000 pay for school?
In 2009 what was the total of Grants awarded from Harvard?
What percentage of total financial aid for undergraduates from Harvard was in the form of grants?
What did families with incomes below $38,000 pay for tuition in 2009?
What else were families with incomes below $38,000 not required to pay for in 2009?
How much did students pay in total to go to Harvard in 2007?
How many student loans can you apply for in four years at Harvard?
How many student dorms were there in use at Harvard in 2012?
What is the center library in the Harvard library system?
How many total volumes are in the Harvard library system?
What are the 3 post popular libraries for undergraduates in the Harvard system?
Where are America's oldest collection of maps, gazettes, and atlases housed?
Where is the American Library Association located?
How many books are endorsed by the American Library Association?
What is the size of the Lamont Library that gives it a unique distinction?
What is the status of the Harvard University Archives with undergraduates?
What kind of access for undergraduates do the Harvard University Archives have?
How many museums comprise Harvard Art Museums?
What does the Fogg Museum of Art cover?
What museum specializes in cultural history and civilizations of the Western Hemisphere?
What is the former name of the Arthur M. Sackler Museum?
How many museums does the Busch-Reisinger Museum comprise?
Who designed the Fogg Museum of Art?
What kind of French art is kept at the Arthur M. Sackler Museum?
What glass flowers exhibit is included in the Busch-Reisinger Museum?
Starting in what year has Harvard topped the Academic Rankings of World Universities?
Beginning in what year was Harvard on top of the World Reputation Rankings?
According to the Princeton Review where has Harvard ranked as a "Dream College" in 2013
Since what year has the ARWU ranked academic performance?
During what years did Harvard roll out a new undergraduate program?
What news magazine transitioned to being exclusively online in 2009?
How was The Princeton Review ranked by students in 2013 for being most informative?
How was US News and World Report ranked in terms of CEO positions in 2011?
How many intercollegiate sports does Harvard compete in NCAA division I
What is Harvard's most intense rival?
At what time is the Harvard-Yale rivalry set aside?
How many sports does Yale compete  in in the NCAA Division I Ivy League?
What kind of rivalry do Oxford and Cambridge have?
What event does the Oxford-Cambridge rivalry culminate in?
How often do Oxford and Cambridge put aside their rivalry?
How old is the NCAA Division I Ivy League competition?
What was the first year that Yale and Harvard played football?
In what year did Harvard Stadium become the first ever concrete reinforced stadium in the country?
In what year was a set of significant rule changes introduced including the forward pass?
What school was Walter Camp a captain for the football team?
What event was won by Yale in 1920?
What stadium was built in 1920?
How did Yale introduce a new era in football?
What position was Walter Camp on Harvard's football team?
What newly legalized move did Harvard's football team support in 1920?
What is the name of Harvard's basketball facility?
What is the name of Harvard's primary recreational sports facility?
How many weight rooms are in the Malkin Athletic Center
At what building do Olympic athletes train?
What does the Lavietes Pavillion serve as a satellite location for?
How many stories doe the Lavietes Pavillion have?
How many cardio rooms are at the Lavietes Pavillion?
What kind of swimming pool is at the Lavietes Pavillion?
Harvard - Yale Regatta predates "The Game" by how many years?
In what body of water is the Harvard - Yale Regatta held?
Who is the primary rival of the Harvard Crimson hockey team?
In what year did Harvard win an Intercolleiate Sailing Association National Championship?
In what state is Yale located?
What river is located near Cornell University?
How is the Yale rowing crew ranked?
What event did Cornell win in 2003?
In what month does the Harvard Crimson men's ice hockey team play?
What UN secretary went to Harvard?
What Columbia President went to Harvard?
Who is the Costa Rican President that went to Harvard?
What Harvard Alumni was the Palestine Prime Minister?
At what venue did Benjamin Netanyahu give a speech recently?
What office was held by George W. Bush?
In what office has Barack Obama recently served his last term?
Where did Barack Obama give his last speech in 2016?
What Union is Antonis Samaras a part of?
What tv host and writer went to Harvard?
What famous conductor went to Harvard?
What is the name of world renowned cellist is a former Harvard student?
What famous civil rights leader called Harvard home?
Who was the former host of Late Night with Conan O'Brien?
What actor starred in the Movie Saving Private Ryan?
Who is a player on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers?
What actor starred in The Men in Black?
Who was the directer of Noah in 2014?
What Fields Medal winning Mathematician is a faculty member at Harvard?
What prestigious legal scholars are faculty members at Harvard?
What Shakespeare Scholar is a faculty member at Harvard?
What scientist published "The Better Angels of Our Nature" in 2011?
What chemist won the Nobel prize in Chemstry in 1986?
What author is best known for his book The Metaphysical Club?
What British citizen stands with and supports liberal democrats?
What political scientist is one of the founders of the theory of neoliberalism?
Which Florida city has the biggest population?
What was the population Jacksonville city as of 2010?
Based on population alone, what is Jacksonville's ranking in the United States?
In which county does Jacksonville reside?
What year did consolidation cause Jacksonville to become part of Duval County?
Which Florida city has a smallest population?
What County was Jacksonville the seat of prior to 1968?
What year did Jacksonville consolidate with Davis County?
What is the largest metropolitan area in Florida and the Southeast?
What city proper has a population of 1,345,596?
What river runs alongside Jacksonville?
How far is Jacksonville from Miami?
What is the name of the French colony established in 1564?
Prior to the arrival of the French, the area now known as Jacksonville was previously inhabited by what people?
What historical figure was Jacksonville named after?
What cities 340 km from Jacksonville?
In what year did the Timucue people inhabit the Jacksonville area?
What British for was Jacksonville the site of?
What grew at the narrow point in the river under Spanish rule?
What is the ranking of the military forces in Jacksonville?
What sport attracts most tourists to Jacksonville?
How many naval bases are located in Jacksonville?
What are those from Jacksonville sometimes called?
What has made Jacksonville a major military and civilian court since the 1900s?
How many Marine bases are located in Jacksonville?
What are people from Florida sometimes called?
Which port is United States's third-largest seaport?
What are some of the minor factors in the local economy?
The area where Jacksonville currently sits has been inhabited for how many years?
Who discovered pottery found on Black Hammock Island?
What civilization did the pottery belong to?
What is the 16th century known as the start of?
What is the name of the village that once existed in what is now downtown Jacksonville?
What area remained uninhabited for thousands of years? 
What I lent to the team of northern University students discover pottery?
What to do university students find the dated sixteenth century?
What area did the Mocama inhabit in 2500 BC?
Sauriwa is the earliest known name for what area?
Who mapped the St. Johns River in 1562?
For what nation did Ribault initially claim what is now Jacksonville?
Who led the attack of the French colony in 1565?
What was Fort Caroline renamed to after the Spanish attack?
Which fort was rebuilt in 1964?
Who was the British explorer chartered the St. John's River?
Where did Ribault erect the flag claiming the land for France?
Why did Pedro Menendez de Aviles called the St. John River the river of May?
Who led the attack on Spain in 1565?
What year was Fort San Mateo reconstructed?
After what event did the Spanish concede Florida to Britain?
Soon after gaining Florida, what did the English do?
Why the narrow part of St. John's River called Cowford?
Who gained control of Florida after the conclusion of the Revolutionary War?
When was the Jacksonville town charter approved?
When did the French construct Kings Road?
What do French construct shortly before losing Florida?
What town charter was approved in 1821?
Supplies from Jacksonville were in support of which faction in the Civil War?
What was the name of the battle that marked the first Confederate win in Florida?
After what battle did Union forces return to and occupy Jacksonville for the rest of the war?
What factors negatively impacted Jacksonville following the war?
In what year was the battle that resulted from a Confederate cavalry unit attacking a Union expedition?
Who did Jacksonville support with supplies during the Revolutionary war?
What was the name of the battle that marked the first Confederate loss in Florida?
After what battle did Union forces leave Jacksonville for good?
What battle involve the Confederate Calvary in 1862?
During what word was Jacksonville a key supply point for the North?
During which period did Jacksonville become a popular destination for the rich?
Which US President visited Jacksonville in 1888?
What caused Jacksonville's tourism to become less desirable at the latter half of the 19th century?
What drew would-be Jacksonville tourists to other Florida destinations?
Other than the steamboat, what modern form of travel brought visitors to Florida?
During what age was Jacksonville no longer a popular destination for the rich?
What Sen. visited Jacksonville in 1888?
What caused Jacksonville tourism to be less desirable during the 1900s?
Extensions of what drew Taurus to Jacksonville?
What modern forms of travel took visitors to other parts of Florida?
What caused the spread of the Jacksonville fire in 1901?
How many buildings were razed by the Jacksonville fire?
In the wake of the Jacksonville fire, what did the Florida Governor do?
What was the Jacksonville fire later known as?
What slowed the spread of the Jacksonville fire in 1901?
When was the fire that destroyed 146 buildings in Jacksonville?
What fire left 2000 people homeless?
What was the largest urban fire in the United States?
What architect was prominent in Jacksonville prior to the fire?
Who was drawn to Jacksonville in the 1910s?
What type of movies were produced in Jacksonville's 30 studios?
Jacksonville's popularity for films earned it what title?
What brought the downfall of Jacksonville filmmaking?
Is what industry was attracted to Jacksonville in the early nineteenth century?
What other film city struggled as Jacksonville grew in popularity?
What was Hollywood known as?
What former studio in Jacksonville has been converted to a modern film Museum?
What drove residents to quieter suburban housing?
What was the white population of Jacksonville as of 2010?
What term referred to middle class citizens leaving the suburbs?
Who was responsible for the new building projects in Jacksonville?
Jacksonville began to suffer and decline after what major world event?
What did Jacksonville suffer from following World War I?
Construction of what led residents to move from the suburbs?
By how much did Jacksonville's Hispanic white population decline? Call
What began to decline after World War I?
What was it called when Jacksonville's white population moved to the city?
What was the cause for the issues with city funding?
In what part of the city did residents suffer from a lack of city services?
What was the proposed solution to Jacksonville's tax issues?
Who voted against Jacksonville's annexation?
What cause city funding to increase?
Where were most municipal services concentrated at?
In what year was it suggested the Jacksonville stop annexing outlying communities?
Who voted for Jacksonville's annexation?
How were most city officials elected in the 1960s?
How many city officials were indicted due to corruption?
What political group began to gain support following the corruption scandal?
What spurred increased support for government reform?
How are most city officials elected after the 1960s
How many former city officials were investigated by the grand jury?
What political group begin to lose support following the corruption scandals?
What happened when public high schools gained accreditation?
What were the reasons not to consolidate the government?
What was the result of the 1967 referendum?
Who was Jacksonville's mayor at the time of the consolidation?
What was Jacksonville referred to as after the consolidation?
What was the name of the approved measure that helped cover the cost of major city projects?
How did the Better Jacksonville Plan generate money?
What do voters reject in 1967
What was formed when the government merged in 1967?
Was services were not consolidated under the new government?
What was Jacksonville referred to before the consolidation?
What is the land area of Jacksonville?
What river separates Jacksonville?
What is the name of the river that is completely contained inside Jacksonville?
How much of Jacksonville is made up of water?
What town is surrounded by Jacksonville?
Was sitting is 874.3 km²?
What River surrounds Jacksonville?
What makes up 11.6% of Jacksonville?
What is the name of the river that lies completely outside of Jacksonville?
What town surrounds Jacksonville?
What distinction does the Bank of America Tower hold?
The Bank of America Tower was previously known as what?
How tall is the Bank of America Tower?
How many floors are there in the building that was completed in 1967?
What makes the Wells Fargo Center stand out?
In the shortest building in downtown Jacksonville?
Building a 617 m tall?
What thirty-seven story building was built in 1972?
How many stories does the Bank of America tower have?
What type of climate does Jacksonville have?
When does rain typically fall in Jacksonville?
How is winter weather in Jacksonville described as?
Aside from being located on the coast, what contributes to Jacksonville's lack of cold weather?
Was city has a tropical climate?
What kind of winters does Jacksonville have along with hot and dry summers?
What is concentrated in the coldest months of the year?
High altitude as well as what contributes to Jacksonville's lack of cold-weather question work
What is Jacksonville's hottest recorded temperature?
What is a common occurrence during summer days?
What else contributes to Jacksonville's summer storms other than land heating beside the water?
What is Jacksonville's hottest month on average?
What is Jacksonville's highest recorded monthly temperature?
What kind of storms are common in the fall?
Low humidity and what lead to Jacksonville's storms?
My ways Jacksonville's coldest month on record?
What storm had the most significant impact on Jacksonville?
How fast were the winds around St. Augustine in the 1964 hurricane?
What was the name of the storm that hit Jacksonville in May of 2012?
What is the scale used to measure the strength of hurricanes called?
In what year did a tropical storm cause a four day loss of power to Jacksonville?
What hurricane had less effect on Jacksonville than other cities along the coast?
How high were the winds around St. Augustine during the 1871 hurricane?
What storm crisscrossed the state hitting Jacksonville in 1964?
What P or was damaged during the 2008 tropical storm Fay?
Hurricane Dora caused a minor what?
What ethnic group located in Jacksonville is ranked tenth largest?
How many residents were recorded in the 2010 census of Jacksonville?
Compared to the rest of Florida, how does Jacksonville's Filipino population rank?
What Jacksonville community is known for having heavy ties to the Navy?
In what city or the Arabs the twelve largest ethnic group?
In what year were there 366,233 people in Jacksonville?
Where else is there a smaller Filipino population that in Jacksonville?
In what year were there 5751 Filipinos in Jacksonville
What military branch does much of Jacksonville's Arab population have ties to?
What portion of households in Jacksonville have only one person?
How many of Jacksonville's city residents are younger than 18?
Which gender is more populous across all groups in Jacksonville?
How many men older than 18 are there for every 100 women?
What year was 366,273 people in Jacksonville?
How many of Jacksonville city's residents are older than eighteen?
How many women older than eighteen are there for every 100 men?
Where was the average household size was 3.21
What percentage of married couples had children living with them?
What percentage of global assets does the richest 1% of people have?
According to Oxfam, the 85 richest people have wealth equal to how many average people?
In order to be considered in the top percentile, a person would need to amass how much money each year?
What has caused Oxfam's findings to be questioned?
Why does Oxfam and Credit Suisse believe their findings are being doubted?
What percent of the global assets in 2000 were owned by just 1% of adults?
What do the three richest people in the world posses more of than the lowest 48 nations together?
How much was the combined wealth of the "10 Million dollar millionaires" in 2008?
How much of the global wealth will the wealthiest 1 percent own by 2016?
Why are there more poor people in the United States and Europe than China?
What percentage of global assets does the richest 10% of people have?
According to Oxfam, the 58 richest people have wealth equal to how many average people?
In order to be considered in the bottom percentile, a person would need to amass how much money each year?
What has caused Oxfam's findings to not be questioned?
Why does Oxfam and Credit Suisse believe their findings are being accepted?
How many Americans are richer than more than half of all citizens?
What publication printed that the wealthiest 1% have more money than those in the bottom 90%?
What is considered as a potential advantage for wealth for some Americans?
What did the richest 400 Americans have as children that helped them be successful adults?
What do the top 400 richest Americans have more of than half of all Americans combined?
Who owns more wealth than the bottom 90 percent of people in the U.S.?
What may explain why some Americans who've become rich may have had a head start?
How many of the richest 400 Americans grew up in substantial privilege?
What Institute published findings in September 2012 regarding the Forbes richest 400 Americans?
How many Americans are richer than less than half of all citizens?
What publication printed that the wealthiest 1% have more money than those in the bottom 99%?
What is considered as a potential disadvantage for wealth for some Americans?
What did the richest 40 Americans have as children that helped them be successful adults?
What do the top 400 richest Americans have less of than half of all Americans combined?
What philosophy of thought  addresses wealth inequality?
What is income inequality attributed to?
What impacts distribution of wealth when evaluating labor?
What is the term that describes the difference between what higher paid and lower paid professionals earn?
How is income determined in a market with variously skilled workers?
What did Neoclassical economics view the inequality in the distribution of income as being from?
What is distribution of income from labor due to the differences of?
What does the marginal value added by an economic actor determine?
What are examples of economic actors?
In a market economy, what is inequality a reflection of?
What philosophy of thought addresses wealth equality?
What is income inequality not attributed to?
What impacts distribution of wealth when not evaluating labor?
What is the term that describes the indifference between what higher paid and lower paid professionals earn?
How is income determined in a market with variously unskilled workers?
What pushes businesses to increase pressures on workers?
What impact does workers working harder have on productivity of a business?
When less workers are required, what happens to the job market?
What impact does higher worker productivity and leveled pay have on higher earners?
What do capitalist firms substitute equipment for in a Marxian analysis?
Why do firms substitute equipment for workers?
What trend increases the organic composition of capital over the long term?
What does the substitution of equipment for labor raise for workers?
What type of wages does mechanization and automation lead to?
What pushes businesses to decrease pressures on workers?
What impact does workers working less have on productivity of a business?
When more workers are required, what happens to the job market?
What impact does higher worker productivity and leveled pay have on lower earners?
What don't capitalist firms substitute equipment for in a Marxian analysis?
What is controled by the market and economy?
Under what law is value of a worker determined?
What happens when business underpays their workers?
How do competing businesses attract workers?
How is income inequality generally viewed by workers?
What controls wages in a purely capitalist mode of production?
What do wages work in the same way as for any other good?
What can be considered as a function of market price of skill?
What can concentrate wealth, pass environmental costs on to society and abuse both workers and consumers?
What type of outcomes can even stable markets lead to?
What is uncontroled by the market and economy?
What happens when business overpays their workers?
Under what law is value of a worker undetermined?
How do competing businesses repel workers?
How isn't income inequality generally viewed by workers?
What has the tendency to increase wages in a field or job position?
When there are many workers competing for a few jobs its considered as what?
What is the potential earnings for a job where there are few skilled workers but many available positions?
What can lead to higher wages for members of labor organizations?
Who works to get workers higher compensation?
What does many workers willing to work for a lot of time competing for a job that only requires a few workers result in?
What drives down wages in a job with many workers willing to work a lot?
Why does competition among workers drive down wages?
What type of wages result from jobs where there is low supply but high demand?
While competition between workers drives down wages for jobs with a high supply of worker, whose competition drives wages up for the inverse?
What has the tendency to decrease wages in a field or job position?
When there are many workers competing for a many jobs its considered as what?
What is the potential earnings for a job where there are many skilled workers but many available positions?
What can lead to lower wages for members of labor organizations?
Who works to get workers lower compensation?
What increases with the increase of income inequality?
Survivial is at the heart of what concept for workers?
What type of motivators are food and shelter considered?
What type of motivators are achievement and self determination considered?
What type of entrepreneurship leads to advancements in technology?
What increases entrepreneurship rates at the individual level?
What is the increased rates of self-employment based on?
Survival needs such as income for food and shelter motivates what type of entrepreneurship? 
What motivation is opportunity-based entrepreneurship driven by?
What type of impact does opportunity-based entrepreneurship tend to have on economic growth?
What decreases with the increase of income inequality?
Survivial isn't at the heart of what concept for workers?
What type of motivators aren't food and shelter considered?
What type of motivators are achievement and outside determination considered?
What type of entrepreneurship leads to a regression in technology?
What is it called when the tax rate and base amount increase simultaneously?
What tax rate has a direct relationship with income inequality?
What can work to even the distribution of wealth?
What system has an impact on income inequality?
In a progressive tax, what increases as the taxable base amount increases?
What will have a direct impact of inequality in a system that uses a progressive tax?
What can result in more equal distribution of income?
What index is an indicator of the effects of taxes applied to social spending?
What is it called when the tax rate and base amount decrease simultaneously?
What tax rate has an indirect relationship with income inequality?
What can't work to even the distribution of wealth?
What system has no impact on income inequality?
In a progressive tax, what increases as the taxable base amount decreases?
What is key to getting the skills needed for high demand jobs?
What do people with lower income have less access to?
What does less education lead to when working?
Who has limited productive potential when faced with less access to education?
What are those with lower incomes less likely to have in order to prepare for the future?
What is an important factor contributing to inequality for individuals?
What does education in an area where there is high demand for workers tend to create?
What type of wages do people unable to afford an education receive?
What does lack of education lead directly to?
What helps to unleash the productivity ability of the poor?
What is key to getting the skills needed for low demand jobs?
What do people with higher income have less access to?
What does more education lead to when working?
Who has limited productive potential when faced with more access to education?
What are those with lower incomes more likely to have in order to prepare for the future?
What did Standard & Poor recommend to speed economy recovery?
How much potential economic growth could the United States amass if everyone went through more schooling?
What is the United States at risk for because of the recession of 2008?
Who concluded that the rising income inequality gap was not getting better?
When did economists reach a conclusion with the S&P's rating agency?
When the recovery between the widening gap between the richest citizens and rest of the nation slow?
What did S&P recommend to somewhat remedy the wealth gap?
If the average U.S. worker were to complete an additional year of school, what amount of growth would be generated over 5 years?
What does wealth disparity make the economy more prone to?
What did Standard & Poor recommend to slow economy recovery?
How much potential economic growth could the United States amass if everyone went through less schooling?
What is the United States at risk for because of the recession of 2000?
Who concluded that the rising income inequality gap was getting better?
When did economists reach a conclusion without the S&P's rating agency?
When did the high school education movement occur?
What impact did the high school education movement have on the presence of skilled workers?
What impact did the high school education movement have on the wages of skilled workers?
What impacts gender inequality in wages?
What contributed to the decreased inequality between trained and untrained workers?
When was the mass high school education movement?
What did the increase in skilled workers lead to?
How did the education during the high school education movement differ from the subsequent high school education?
What is very important for the growth of the economy?
What can result in creating a poverty trap?
When did the middle school education movement occur?
What impact did the high school education movement have on the presence of unskilled workers?
What impact did the high school education movement have on the wages of unskilled workers?
What doesn't impact gender inequality in wages?
What contributed to the increased inequality between trained and untrained workers?
What types of organizations are on a decline in the US which adversely effects economic mobility?
Which set of countries have higher economic mobility than the United States?
Under which policy are labor unions encouraged?
How much support is there for the US approach to economic development?
What is economic liberalism one of the causes of?
What does the U.S. economic and social model have substantial levels of?
What organization is John Schmitt and Ben Zipperer members of?
How much support does evidence provide for the view that labor-market flexibility improves labor-market outcomes?
What level of economic mobility does the U.S. economy have compared to European countries?
What types of organizations are on a decline in the US which adversely effects economic immobility?
Which set of countries have lower economic mobility than the United States?
Under which policy are labor unions discouraged?
How much support is there for the UN approach to economic development?
What is economic liberalism not one of the causes of?
What country has low income inequality and high presence of unions?
What do weak labor movement correlate with?
What has had a negative impact on the labor markets in the US?
What has presented problems to the US economy more than other nations?
What is the profession of Jake Rosenfield?
What college is Jake Rosenfield associated with?
What does Rosenfield feel plays the most significant role in expanding the income gap?
What rate of unionization do Scandinavian nations have?
What does high inequality go hand-in-hand with?
What country has low income inequality and low presence of unions?
What do strong labor movement correlate with?
What has had a negative impact on the labor markets in the UN?
What has presented problems to the UN economy more than other nations?
What isn't the profession of Jake Rosenfield?
What effect does trade with poorer countries have on the workers in richer countries?
What effect does trade with richer countries have on the workers in poorer countries?
What has a bigger impact on the United States' economy more than trade?
What has replaced lower skilled workers in the United States?
What scale does trade liberalization shift economic inequality from?
When rich countries trade with poor countries, whose wages increase?
What does Paul Krugmen think has had an observable effect on inequality in the U.S.?
Compared to other causes, the effect of trade on inequality in America is what?
What has technological innovation and automation replaced low-skilled jobs with?
What effect does trade with poorer countries have on the workers in poorer countries?
What has a smaller impact on the United States' economy more than trade?
What has replaced higher skilled workers in the United States?
What scale doesn't trade liberalization shift economic inequality from?
What is the income inequality gap between genders in Botswana?
What is the gender income inequality in Bahrain?
What is attributed to the income inequality in the United States?
Who does the wage gap between genders provide an advantage?
In many countries, what kind of pay gap is there?
Who does a gender pay gap tend to favor?
What gender is less willing to travel or relocate for work?
Who is the author of the book, "Knowledge and Decisions"?
What does a U.S. census report state that even after other factors there still exists this between earnings of men and women?
What isn't the income inequality gap between genders in Botswana?
What isn't the gender income inequality in Bahrain?
What is attributed to the income inequality in the United Nations?
Who does the wage gap between genders provide a disadvantage?
In many countries, what kind of pay gap isn't there?
What types of programs help to redistribute wealth?
What is the level of inequality in underdeveloped countries?
What introduces inequality to a country?
What leads to lower income inequality?
What profession does Simon Kuznets have?
What did Kuznets argue resulted from stages of development?
What does a country acquire as it develops?
What do the owners of more capital end up having?
What do redistribution mechanisms lead to?
What types of programs don't help to redistribute wealth?
What is the level of inequality in overdeveloped countries?
What doesn't introduce inequality to a country?
What leads to higher income inequality?
What profession doesn't Simon Kuznets have?
During what time period did income inequality decrease in the United States?
When did income inequality begin to increase in the US?
In what sector are jobs beginning to increase?
In what sector are jobs beginning to decrease?
Who plotted the relationships between levels of income and inequality?
What is a a developing economy's level of inequality bulging out called?
What has recent testing of Kuznets theory with superior data show it to be?
What does Kuznets' curve predict about income inequality given time?
What may be possible for multiple Kuznets' cycles to be in at any given time?
During what time period did income inequality increase in the United States?
When did income inequality begin to decrease in the US?
In what sector are jobs beginning to decrease?
In what sector are jobs beginning to increase?
Who never plotted the relationships between levels of income and inequality?
What process attributes new wealth to those that already have it?
According to the wealth concentration theory, what advantage do the wealthy have in accumulating new wealth?
What has the highest impact on wealth accumulation and the resulting income inequality?
What tends to lead to more money?
Where does newly created wealth concentrate? 
Who is best able to leverage the accumulation of wealth?
What can significantly contribute to the continuing inequality in a society over time?
Who wrote the book "Capital in the Twenty-First Century"?
What do larger fortunes generate?
What process attributes old wealth to those that already have it?
According to the wealth concentration theory, what disadvantage do the wealthy have in accumulating new wealth?
What has the lowest impact on wealth accumulation and the resulting income inequality?
What tends to lead to less money?
Where does oldly created wealth concentrate? 
What career does Joseph Stiglitz have?
What forces should serve as a brake on wealth concentration?
What type of skills does the market bid up compensation for?
What is used by certain wealthy groups to obtain policies financially beneficial for them?
Income not from the creation of wealth but by grabbing a larger share of it is know to economists by what term?
What career doesn't Joseph Stiglitz have?
What forces shouldn't serve as a brake on wealth concentration?
What type of skills does the market bid down compensation for?
What is used by certain unwealthy groups to obtain policies financially beneficial for them?
Income not from the creation of wealth but by grabbing a smaller share of it is know to economists by what term?
Higher rates of health and social problems are just two of examples of effects from what?
Why does a lower level of economic growth occur due to high-end consumption?
What is lower in countries with more inequality for the top 21 industrialized countries?
What is a lower rate of social goods an effect of?
In U.S. states, what happens to the life expectancy in less economically equal ones?
Lower rates of health and social problems are just two of examples of effects from what?
Why does a higher level of economic growth occur due to high-end consumption?
What is higher in countries with more inequality for the top 21 industrialized countries?
What is a higher rate of social goods an effect of?
In U.S. states, what happens to the life expectancy in more economically equal ones?
What year did Robert J. Shiller win an Economics Nobel prize?
What is the most important problem in the United States and elsewhere?
Persistent unemployment has what effect on long-term economic growth?
What's one factor in eroding self-esteem?
Policies which reduce the inequality associated effects of unemployment support what type of growth?
What year did Robert J. Shiller lose an Economics Nobel prize?
What is the least important problem in the United States and elsewhere?
What's one factor in increasing self-esteem?
Persistent unemployment has what effect on short-term economic growth?
Policies which reduce the inequality associated effects of unemployment hurt what type of growth?
What nationality are researchers Richard G. Wilkinson and Kate Pickett?
What rates of health and social problems are in countries with high inequality?
How are the rates of social goods in countries with higher inequality?
Health problems were lower in places with higher levels of what?
How many developed countries did British researchers use to gather statistics from?
What nationality aren't researchers Richard G. Wilkinson and Kate Pickett?
What rates of health and social problems are in countries with low inequality?
How are the rates of social goods in countries with lower inequality?
Health problems were higher in places with higher levels of what?
How many undeveloped countries did British researchers use to gather statistics from?
What did higher material living standards lead to for most of human history?
Where does the pattern of higher income-longer lives still hold true?
What increases rapidly as per capita income increases?
Who lives no longer on average than Greeks and New Zealanders?
How are incomes distributed in Sweden?
What did lower material living standards lead to for most of human history?
Where does the pattern of lower income-longer lives still hold true?
What decreases rapidly as per capita income increases?
Who lives longer on average than Greeks and New Zealanders?
How aren't incomes distributed in Sweden?
What characteristic in recent years has been strongly tied with health in developed countries?
Who created an index of health and social problems?
How many factors of health and social problems did Wilkinson and PIckett identify?
Where are health and social problems most common?
What does child well-being in rich countries correlate most to?
What characteristic in recent years has been weakly tied with health in developed countries?
Who rejected an index of health and social problems?
How many factors of health and social problems did Wilkinson and PIckett not identify?
Where are health and social problems least common?
What does child well-being in poor countries correlate most to?
What has crime rate been show to be correlated with in a society?
What is almost identical across all nations and jurisdictions?
Over how many studies have shown that violence is more common in societies with income differences?
How much of a difference in homicide rates are related to inequality?
What is it estimated that about half of all variation in homicide rates can be accounted for by?
What has crime rate been shown not to be correlated with in a society?
What is never identical across all nations and jurisdictions?
Over how many studies have shown that violence is less common in societies with income differences?
How much of a difference in homicide rates aren't related to inequality?
What is it estimated that about a third of all variation in homicide rates can be accounted for by?
What does the utilitarian principle seek for the greatest number of people?
An adobe that provides less utility to one person than another is an example of reduced what?
A dollar spent by a poor person is likely to provide what for them?
What the marginal utility of wealth per income per person do as that person becomes richer?
What will a society with more equality have?
What does the utilitarian principle seek for the lowest number of people?
An adobe that provides more utility to one person than another is an example of reduced what?
A dollar spent by a rich person is likely to provide what for them?
What the marginal utility of wealth per income per person do as that person becomes poorer?
What will a society with less equality have?
What do conservative researchers fell should be a measure of inequality?
What political leaning does the Cato Institute have?
When was consumption inequality lower than it had been in 1986?
Who wrote "The Hidden Prosperity of the Poor"?
What is Thomas B. Edsall's profession?
What do conservative researchers feel shouldn't be a measure of inequality?
What political leaning does the Cato Institute not have?
When was consumption inequality lower than it had been in 1968?
Who never wrote "The Hidden Prosperity of the Poor"?
What isn't Thomas B. Edsall's profession?
What is Raghuram Rajan's career?
What does Rajan feel has created deep financial fault lines?
What is the most recent example of financial fault lines? 
What does political pressure push to extend to compensate for stagnating purchasing power?
What has given the American economy a tendency to go "from bubble to bubble"?
What isn't Raghuram Rajan's career?
What does Rajan feel hasn't created deep financial fault lines?
What is the oldest example of financial fault lines? 
What doesn't political pressure push to extend to compensate for stagnating purchasing power?
What hasn't given the American economy a tendency to go "from bubble to bubble"?
What is negatively correlated to the duration of economic growth?
What do high levels of inequality  prevent beyond economic prosperity?
What happens to the GDP growth of a country if the income share of the top 20 percent increases, according to IMF staff economists? 
What does an increase in the income share of the bottom 20 percent of people of a society result in?
Who matters the most for economic growth?
What is positively correlated to the duration of economic growth?
What do low levels of inequality prevent beyond economic prosperity?
What happens to the GDP growth of a country if the income share of the top 20 percent decreases, according to IMF staff economists? 
What does an decrease in the income share of the bottom 20 percent of people of a society result in?
Who matters the least for economic growth?
What do David Castlles-Quintana and Vicente Royuela do for a living?
What does increasing inequality harm?
What was persistent unemployment have a negative effect on?
Why does unemployment harm growth?
Policies which try to control unemployment support economic growth because they reduce what?
What don't David Castlles-Quintana and Vicente Royuela do for a living?
What does decreasing inequality harm?
What was persistent unemployment have a positive effect on?
Why does unemployment help growth?
Policies which try to control unemployment support economic growth because they increase what?
What did Stiglitz present in 2009 regarding global inequality?
How does inequality prevent growth?
What are both Branko Milanovic and Joseph Stiglitz?
What has been the main reason for the shift to the view that income inequality harms growth?
What has become the secret to economic growth?
What did Stiglitz present in 2008 regarding global inequality?
How does inequality help growth?
What aren't both Branko Milanovic and Joseph Stiglitz?
What has been the main reason for the shift to the view that income inequality helps growth?
When did Galor and Zeria show new information about inequality?
Inequality in the presence of credit market imperfections has what kind of effect on human capital formation?
What did a 1996 study by Perotti examine?
What is inequality associated with higher levels of?
What do extremely unequal societies tend to be?
When did Galor and Zeria show old information about inequality?
nequality in the presence of credit market perfections has what kind of effect on human capital formation?
What did a 1969 study by Perotti examine?
What is inequality associated with lower levels of?
What do extremely equal societies tend to be?
What institution does Robert Barro hail from?
Barro found there is little relation between income inequality and rates of what?
What does high levels of inequality do to growth in poor countries?
What does high levels of inequality do for economic growth in richer countries?
When was a study conducted of Swedish counties?
What institution doesn't Robert Barro hail from?
Barro found there is much relation between income inequality and rates of what?
What does high levels of inequality do to growth in rich countries?
What does low levels of inequality do for economic growth in richer countries?
When wasn't a study conducted of Swedish counties?
What have studies on income inequality sometimes found evidence confirming?
The Kuznets curve says with economic development, inequality will decrease after what?
Who challenges the notion of the Kuznets curve hypothesis?
What's Thomas Piketty's job?
What does Piketty feel was the biggest factors in reducing inequality between 1914 to 1945?
What haven't studies on income inequality sometimes found evidence confirming?
The Kuznets curve says with economic development, inequality will increase after what?
Who accepts the notion of the Kuznets curve hypothesis?
What isn't Thomas Piketty's job?
What does Piketty feel was the biggest factors in reducing inequality between 1941 to 1945?
When were theories developed suggesting inequality may have some positive effect on economic development?
According to a 1955 review, what were savings by the wealthy thought to offset?
What does a 2013 report on Nigeria suggest it's growth has done?
How long does it take for the effects to manifest as changes to economic growth?
What are longer growth spells associated with?
When were theories developed suggesting inequality may have some negative effect on economic development?
According to a 1954 review, what were savings by the wealthy thought to offset?
What does a 2003 report on Nigeria suggest it's growth has done?
How long doesn't it take for the effects to manifest as changes to economic growth?
What are shorter growth spells associated with?
What needs to be made to ensure poorer members of society can participate in economic growth?
What can the growth elasticity of poverty depend on?
What does it take a country with high inequality longer to achieve?
What was Ban Ki-Moon the Secretary General of?
What isn't economic growth sufficient for progress on?
What needs to be made to ensure richer members of society can participate in economic growth?
What can the growth elasticity of poverty not depend on?
What doesn't it take a country with high inequality longer to achieve?
What was Ban Ki-Moon not the Secretary General of?
What isn't economic growth insufficient for progress on?
What is held outside the formal legal ownership registration system in many developing countries?
How is unregistered property held in informal form?
Excessive bureaucratic red tape is one of the reasons for what type of ownership?
In some countries over how many steps can it take to build on government land?
What can it sometimes take up to 14 years to get permission to build on?
What is held inside the formal legal ownership registration system in many developing countries?
How is registered property held in informal form?
Excessive bureaucratic red tape isn't one of the reasons for what type of ownership?
In all countries over how many steps can it take to build on government land?
What can it sometimes take up to 41 years to get permission to build on?
What do a number of researchers think a shortage of is caused in part by income inequality?
What decreased in number between 1984 and 1991?
Why did the demand for rentals decrease?
What drove increased rental prices in East New York?
What combined with ricing prices to make it difficult or impossible for poor people to keep pace?
What do a number of researchers think a shortage of isn't caused in part by income inequality?
What decreased in number between 1948 and 1991?
Why did the demand for rentals increase?
What drove decreased rental prices in East New York?
What combined with lowering prices to make it difficult or impossible for poor people to keep pace?
How are the certain costs which are difficult to avoid shared?
What are those with lower incomes often unable to manage?
What is the term when middle income earners aspire to obtain the same standards of living as people wealthier than themselves?
What is one method of achieving aspirational consumption?
When people take on debt, it leads potentially to what?
How are the certain costs which are easy to avoid shared?
What are those with higher incomes often unable to manage?
What is the term when top income earners aspire to obtain the same standards of living as people wealthier than themselves?
What is one method of achieving perspirational consumption?
When people get rid of debt, it leads potentially to what?
When economic inequality is smaller, more waste and pollution is?
What would be lower if there were fewer people?
What does the current high level of population have a large impact on?
How could human inequality be addressed without resulting in an increase of environmental damage?
When political inequality is smaller, more waste and pollution is?
What would be higher if there were fewer people?
What does the current low level of population have a large impact on?
When economic inequality is larger, more waste and pollution is?
How could human inequality be addressed without resulting in an decrease of environmental damage?
What is the vast disparities in wealth attributed to by Socialists?
What does private ownership create a situation of?
What type of income is the vast majority of the population dependent on?
How do socialists think the means of production should be owned?
What would income differentials be if individual contributions were relevant to the social product?
What is the vast disparities in wealth not attributed to by Socialists?
What doesn't private ownership create a situation of?
What type of income is the vast majority of the population not dependent on?
How do socialists think the means of production shouldn't be owned?
What would income differentials be if individual contributions weren't relevant to the social product?
Who argues that the government redistributes wealth by force?
What is the usual form of the government's wealth redistribution? 
In an ideal moral society, what would all citizens be free from?
How were some modern economic inequalities created?
When are inequalities in wealth justified, according to John Rawls?
Who argues that the government redistributes wealth by peace?
What is the unusual form of the government's wealth redistribution? 
In an ideal moral society, what would no citizens be free from?
How were some modern economic inequalities destroyed?
When aren't inequalities in wealth justified, according to John Rawls?
What does the capabilities approach look at poverty as a form of?
In the capabilities approach, grow and income are considered a means to an end rather than what?
What is the goal of the capabilities approach?
How would the capabilities approach achieve it's goal?
What is the definition of agency as it relates to capabilities? 
What doesn't the capabilities approach look at poverty as a form of?
In the capabilities approach, grow and income aren't considered a means to an end rather than what?
What is the goal of the incapabilities approach?
How wouldn't the capabilities approach achieve it's goal?
What is the definition of agency as it unrelates to incapabilities? 
What happens when a person's capabilities aer lowered, as it relates to their income?
What can and old, ill man not do?
What issues may prevent women from working outside the home or receiving education?
Why would rampant violence prevent people from going to work?
What can people work towards if they aren't denied their functionings, capabilities and agency?
What happens when a person's capabilities aer raised, as it relates to their income?
What can and old, ill man do?
What issues can't prevent women from working outside the home or receiving education?
Why wouldn't rampant violence prevent people from going to work?
What can people work towards if they are denied their functionings, capabilities and agency?
What kind of university is the University of Chicago?
When was the University of Chicago established?
How many professional schools does the University of Chicago have?
How many academic research divisions does the University of Chicago have?
How many students does the University of Chicago have enlisted?
The city of Pritzker is home to which University?
Nearly 7,000 students are enrolled where?
What was established in 1809?
Other than UChicago or simply Chicago, what is another term for the University of Graham Business?
What types of other schools is the city of Harris well known for?
University of Chicago scholars played a major part in what development?
Who helped develop the first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction?
Where is the first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction located?
What is the name of the largest university press in the U.S?
In what year will the Barack Obama Presidential Center be finished?
What development has the University of Biological Physics played a lead role in?
What world's first did the religion department help to develop?
Under which field did the world's first synthetically produced nuclear reaction occur?
What is the name of the smallest university press in the US?
The Stagg Presidential Center is set to be finished in what year?
What society founded the University of Chicago?
What person helped establish the school with a donation?
Who was the first president of the University of Chicago?
What year was the university's first president given his position? 
What year was the first class taught at the University of Chicago?
Who is known as the poorest man in all history?
In what year was the University of Maynard incorporated?
In what year did Robert Harper become the first president of the University?
In what year did the U of C become one of 7 founding members of the Association of Chicago Universities?
In what year were the last classes held in the university?
Who donated property to the University of Chicago?
Who helped pay for the university's first building structure? 
What was the name of the first building built on campus grounds?
How much did Silas B. Cobb pledge to the university?
What is the name of the donor who helped establish the Hutchinson Commons?
In what year did the Walker Museum create and incorporate the U of C as a coed institution?
In what year did Clay Bartlett donate land by Marshall Field?
Who financed the original board of trustees?
George C. Walker served as trustee, treasurer and donor of what?
It was outlined that who's donations could only be used for buildings?
In 1890, who did the university decide to team up with?
What year did the university team up with Shimer College?
The university agreed to grant a degree to any graduate of affiliate schoos that did what?
Who disliked the affiliate program?
In what year did the affiliate program end?
In what decade did the U of C affiliate with numerous national colleges?
Shimer University is located in which Illinois city?
To what schools did the U of C agree to provide books and supplies free of charge?
In what year did the U of C associate with Kalamazoo College, located in Mount Carroll?
Who was the university's 5th president?
In what year was the university's 5th president granted his position?
How long did the 5th president's tenure last?
Why did the 5th president of the university decide to get rid of the football program?
What was the name given to the undergraduate college's liberal-arts curriculum?
In what year did the fourth president, Robert Maynard Hutchins take office?
What did the university undergo during Hutchins 33 year tenure?
Why did Hutchins eliminate hospitals from the university?
In what year did Hutchins propose a plan to combine the U of C with Common Core?
During who's tenure was the University of Chicago Hospitals system destroyed?
In what year did the university first see a drop in applications?
Why did the university see a drop in applicants? 
When were Shimer College students allowed to transfer to the University of Chicago?
The urban renewal project was intended to help the residents of what neighborhood?
What did the early entrant program do for potential students?
During which decade was there an increase in student applications?
Why did student applications increase during the 1950s?
What happened to the number of student applications during the 1920s?
Student enrollment increased as a result of increased crime and poverty in which neighborhood?
Like the University of Hyde Park, what did Shimer College and 10 other schools adopt?
In what year did student decide to occupy the president's office?
What made the student decide to occupy the president's office in protest?
In what year was the Kalven Report issued?
How many pages was the Kalven Report statement?
What policy did the Kelven Report contain?
During which decade did the university experience student rest?
Who was the vice president in 1962?
Who's office did students occupy in a protest over rental policies in 1965?
In what year was the Darfur Report issued?
The three page Kalven Report was issued in which year?
When did the university decide to start multimillion-dollar expansion projects?
What institute did the university announced to everyone in 2008?
How much did the Milton Friedman Institute roughly cost?
What buildings held the Milton Friedman Institute?
Who decide to make a very large donation to the university's Booth School of Business?
In which decade did the university begin several thousand dollar expansion projects?
When were plans for the Harris Friedman Institute announced?
Planned to occupy the Chicago Business Booth, how much is the Milton Friedman Institute estimated to cost?
Who donated a half billion dollars to the university's Booth School of Business?
In what year did Pearson Friedman donate $300 million to the Booth School of Business?
What are the first buildings the university built knows as today?
How many quadrangles does the Main Quadrangles have?
Who helped designed the Main Quadrangles?
The Mitchell Tower is designed to look like what Oxford tower?
Hutchinson Hall was designed to look like what Oxford hall?
The first buildings of the University of Oxford are known as what?
Who were the Main Gothics designed by?
The second buildings of the U of C are known as what?
The Main Quadrangles were a piece of a master plan conceived by how many Oxford University trustees?
During what decade did the campus start to look more modern?
Who was assigned to design a second master plan?
What administration did Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designa buiding?
What public policy school found it's home in the building that Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designed?
When was the Gerald Ratner Athletics Center constructed?
After which decade did modern styles give way to Gothic styles on campus?
In what year was Owings contracted to develop a second master plan?
What was Eero Saarinen contracted to develop in 2011?
The third master plan led to the construction of buildings where?
In which year was the Gerald Palevsky Athletic Commons developed?
What other locations can the Booth School of Business be found?
The Center in Paris is located near what river?
The university established a center in Beijing in what year?
The university's center in Beijing is located next to what school's campus?
What year did the university open a center in Hong Kong?
Where does the Paris School Of Business have campuses?
Which campus is located on the right banks of the Seine?
Which campus hosts graduate only student programs and is located on the banks of the Seine?
In what year were the oldest additions in New Delhi opened?
In what year were the oldest additions in Hong Kong opened?
Who runs the University of Chicago?
How many people belong to the university's Board of Trustees?
How many Vice Presidents are in the Board of Trustees?
What is the name of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees?
Who took Isaacs place as Provost in 2016?
Who governs the University of Zimmer?
What does the Board of Presidents oversee?
Along with managing student laboratories, what else does the Board of Trustees do?
Which body is composed of 2009 members?
Diermeier was replaced as Provost by who?
Who is the university accredited by?
The academic body of the university is made up of how many divisions of graduate?
The academic body of the university is made up of how many professional schools?
How many divisions of graduate research does the University of Higher Learning consist of?
How many professional schools does the University of Higher Learning consist of?
The U of C has ties to several dependent institutions, including?
By which Commission is the University of Chicago Press accredited?
What do the academic bodies of the University of Chicago Medical Center consist of?
How many academic majors does the university grant in total?
How many academic minors does the university grant in total?
How many divisions make up the academics of the university?
What division offers more then one branch of studies that don't fit in with the other four?
The College grants Bachelor of Science/Arts degrees in 28 majors and how many minors?
The College grants Bachelor of Science/Arts degrees in 50 minors and how many majors?
Which University's College grants academic majors in 30 subject areas?
Which University's College grants academic minors in 50 subject areas?
The college's University is divided into how many divisions?
What is the name of the university's core curriculum?
During 2012-2013, how many student were able to take the Core classes at a single time?
UChicago claims to have what kind of learning experience compared to other universities? 
What guide states the Univeristy of Chicago is known for their heavy workload and academic difficulty?
What are undergraduates required to take to satisfy the Chicago Core curriculum?
During what time frame were the core classes limited to only 15 students?
As of 2017, how many courses are required under Core?
Other than requiring 17 classes, what else is required under Core as of 2013-2014?
What are graduate courses at the U of C known for?
What is the name of the private day school for K-12 students the university runs?
What is the name of the residential treatment program the university runs?
How many public charter schools does the university run?
What does the Urban Education Institute help run?
Where is the Hyde Park Day School located?
Apart from its mathematics and postgraduate schools, what else doe the university run?
What is the name for the public day school and day care for K-12 students?
What has the U of C maintained since 1938?
What is the name for the social science program used in urban primary and secondary schools?
Which is the largest university press in the South Side?
The University of Chicago Library system has how many libraries in total?
How man volumes does the The University of Chicago Library system hold?
What is the name given to the university's main library?
In what year was the Joe and Rika Mansueto Library constructed?
How many volumes does the John Crerar Library roughly hold?
Which University's library system consists of 12 libraries?
Which University's library system has over 10 millionvolumes?
Which University ranks having the 9th most number of volumes in the US?
In what year was the D'Angelo and Rika Library built?
How many research institutes does the university run on campus?
How many research centers does the university run on campus?
What is the name of the museum and research center for Near Eastern studies, that is owned by the university?
What lab does the university have a joint stake in? 
Where is the Apache Point Observatory located?
Aside from 113 research institutes, how many research centers does the U of C operate?
Aside from 12 research centers, how many research institutes does the U of C operate?
Which institute is a center for Near Western studies?
In which Illinois city is the Marine Biological Laboratory located?
On which Woods Hole campus is the National Opinion Research Center located?
What role in economics did the university play a major part in?
What was the name of the first self-sustained man-made nuclear reaction?
What was the name of the experiment that tested how life originated?
When was REM sleep discovered?
Why was the Kleitman-Aserinsky experiment conducted?
When was the Miller-Urey experiment conducted?
What kind of sleep was discovered at the U of C in 1947?
What was the experiment that tested early life on Mars called?
What gave way to the Chicago school of psychology?
Since what year did the university offer a doctorate in music composition?
Since what year did the university offer a doctorate in Cinema & Media studies?
When did the university start having a bachelor's degree program in Cinema & Media studies?
When did the university start having a bachelor's degree program in theater & performance studies?
Around roughly how many students enroll yearly in creative and performing arts classes?
What doctorate program has been offered since 1996?
The university has masters programs in visual arts, music and what other subjects?
The university has bachelor programs in fine arts in visual arts and what other subject?
What type of requirement does the College's common core require?
In what year did the Williams and Logan Center open?
In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the college?
In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the university's four graduate divisions?
In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the university's professional schools?
In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the university's  in total?
Who made up 19% of the student body in the 2012 Spring Quarter? 
How many students enrolled at the College during the spring of 2014?
The University enrolled 3,468 students in the College  and how many in it's graduate divisions?
How many students did the University enroll in its five graduate divisions in 2014?
The University enrolled 5,984 students in the College  and how many in its professional schools?
What year did the College have the highest acceptance rate in its history?
The Maroons are apart of what association?
The Maroons compete in what league division?
The university was a founding force behind what conference?
What player first won the Heisman Trophy for the university?
Why did the university eventually leave the conference?
What kind of member what the University to the Big Twelve Conference?
When did the University reach the Sweet Seventeen?
When did Robert Hutchins become the first Heisman Trophy winner?
When did Jay Berwanger win the Maynard Trophy?
In what did the President re-emphasize athletics at the university?
Roughly how many clubs are ran at the university?
What is the name of the organization in charge of running the clubs at the university?
What club won 118 tournaments and 15 national championships?
What is the name of the country's longest continuously running student film society?
What is the name of the student improvisational theater troupe?
How many clubs do the students at the University of Model United Nations run?
What are the over 118 clubs run by students at the U of C called collectively?
When was the RSO Nations team the top ranked in North America?
When was the Model United Nations team ranked second in North America?
During what years was the Model United Nations team ranked first in South America?
Who makes up the Student Government?
Who leads the Student Government?
How many vice presidents are on the Student Board?
Roughly how much is the Student Government's budget?
What organizations are funded by the student government?
The Chicago government is made up of what type of students?
Who are members of the sports club elected to represent?
The student government is led by the president and chaired by who?
What is the annual budget for the Scavenger Hunt?
How many fraternities are apart of the university?
How many sororities are apart of the university?
What is the name of the co-ed community service fraternity?
How many sororities belong to the National Panhellenic Conference?
How many fraternities form the University of Chicago Interfraternity Council?
Along with 15 sororities, how many fraternities does the U of C have?
Along with 7 fraternities, how many sororities does the U of C have?
What are ten of the sororities members of?
What do four of the fraternities form?
In what year did Alpha Phi Omega estimate that about 10% of students participated in sororities/fraternities?
In what month is the university's scavenger hunt?
In what year did the scavenger hunt begin?
What does FOTA stand for?
What is the name of the winter festival held in January that is based on fitness? 
What is the name of the university's summer festival?
What has the university held since 1963 where large teams find items from a list?
What has been held since 1987, taking over the campus for 7-10 days with exhibitions?
What is held ever February at the university?
What is the university's winter carnival and concert called?
Which debate has been organized by the U of C since 1987?
What Microsoft CEO is also an alumni of the University of Chicago?
Who was the founder of the Oracle Corporation?
Who is the third riches man in America?
What Goldman Sachs CEO is also an alumni of the University of Chicago?
Who founded McKinsey & Company?
Who is the founder of Microsoft and the third richest man in America?
Who is the CEO of Microsoft and also served as Governor in NJ?
Who is the founder of the Chicago Cubs and author of the first management accounting text book?
Who is the chairman of Microsoft as well as the NBA commissioner?
Who serves as Microsoft and MF Global CEO?
Who is the founder of modern community organizing?
What alumni was also Obama's campaign adviser?
What alumni was also an Attorney General and a federal judge?
What alumni is also the Governor of the Bank of Japan?
What prohibition agent was also an alumni at the university?
Who is the Attorney General and Obama Campaign advisor?
Who serves as Attorney General as well as top political advisor to the President?
Who is the 12th Prime Minister of Poland?
Who is the Governor of the Bank of Justice?
Who is the first Japanese Senator?
What alumni member also write the bestseller Before I Fall?
What is the name of the Pulitzer Prize novelist who was also a university alumni? 
What alumni wrote "The Closing of the American Mind"?
What alumni wrote "The Good War"?
What is the name of the American writer and satirist who is also a university alumni?
Who won the Pullitzer Prize as well as the Nobel Prize?
Who wrote the American Times bestselling book titled "The Closing of the American Mind"?
Who wrote "The American War"?
Who wrote the book titled "Before I Fall" which was a University bestseller?
Who wrote "The closing of the Good War"?
What minimalist composer is also a university graduate?
What is the name of the Bungie Inc. founder who is also a university graduate?
What video game series did Alex Seropian make?
What American actor is also a university graduate?
What comedian is also a university graduate? 
Who is the Bungie founder and developer of the dance video game?
Who is an actor and also Serial host?
Who is an award winning photographer and writer?
Who directed Life Itself?
What astronomers is also a university alumni member?
What NASA astronaut is also a university alumni member?
What popular environmentalist is also a university alumni member?
Who developed the lithium-ion battery?
What geochemist developed the uranium-lead dating method into lead-lead dating?
What astronomer is a Hamming Code alumni?
What DNA astronaut is also a U of C alumni?
Who was the developer of the Hamming battery?
Who developed the lithium ion battery which let to lead-lead dating?
What Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences winner is also a university alumni member?
What British Prime minister advisor is also a university alumni member?
Who was the first American to win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences?
What university alumni member was known for his work on portfolio theory?
Which Nobel Memorial Prize in British Sciences is an alumni?
What US Prime Minister is an alumni?
Who is known for working on portfolio capture theory?
Name the British economist, theorist and philosopher who is also an author and alumni?
Who was responsible for the ancient interpretation of organizational decision making?
What anthropologists are also university alumni members?
What chess grandmaster is also a university alumni?
What conservative international relations scholar is also a university alumni?
Who are best known for uncovering the fossil of John B Watson?
Who did John B Watson and David Graeber discover a fossil of?
The male fossil known as Lucy was discovered by who?
Who is the White House Coordinator of Security Planning and also an anthropologist?
Who established the psychological school of conservative international relations?
Who calculated the speed of light?
Who discovered the Compton Effect?
Who invented the first nuclear reactor?
Who is also known at the father of the hydrogen bomb?
Who was the second female Nobel laureate ?
Who is known for calculating the speed of nuclear reactions?
Who discovered the AA Michelson effect?
Who is known for inventing the first elementary charge calculator?
Who is known as the father of the hydrogen atom?
Who was the first female laureate winner?
What Egyptologist was also apart of the university's faculty?
What mathematician was also apart of the university's faculty?
What meteorologist was also apart of the university's faculty?
Who developed the actinide concept?
What cancer researchers were also apart of the university's faculty?
Who is a Nobel prize winning prior novelist?
Who is the founder of T. Seaborg and Co.?
Who is the developer of the McKinsey concept?
What Nobel Prize researchers are former faculty members?
Who was a political philosopher, mathematician, author and also former faculty member?
Hank Paulson is the former Chairman and CEO of what banking firm?
Who is the governor of India's central bank?
What Shakespeare scholar is currently on the university's faculty?
What well known political scientists are currently on the university's faculty?
What paleontologists are currently on the university's faculty?
Who is the current CEO and chairmen of Goldman Sachs?
Who is the current Chairman of President Barack Obama's Council of Economic Advisors?
Who governs Nobel Prize central bank?
Who wrote Freakonomics and is also an anthropologist?
Who is the 75th United States Secretary of the Treasury?
What is the Chinese name for the Yuan dynasty?
What is the Yuan dynasty's official name?
Who started the Yuan dynasty?
Who led the Mongolian Borjigin clan?
When did Khan formally declare the Yuan dynasty?
What is the Japanese name for the Yuan dynasty?
 What is the Yuan dynasty's unofficial name?
 Who ended the Yuan dynasty?
 Who rejected the Mongolian Borjigin clan?
 When did Khan formally reject the Yuan dynasty?
What non-Chinese empire did the Yuan dynasty succeed?
What dynasty came before the Yuan?
What dynasty came after the Yuan?
Who was Kublai Khan's grandfather?
What non-Japanese empire did the Yuan dynasty succeed?
 What non-dynasty came before the Yuan?
 What non-dynasty came after the Yuan?
 Who was Kublai Khan's uncle?
When did Khan establish the Great Yuan?
What writing inspired the name Great Yuan?
What was the Yuan dynasty called in Mongolian?
What does Yeke Mongghul Ulus mean?
What nominal title did Yuan emperors have?
When did Khan disestablish the Great Yuan?
 What writing discouraged the name Great Yuan?
 What was the Yuan dynasty called in Japanese?
 What doesn't Yeke Mongghul Ulus mean?
 What nominal title did Yuan emperors reject?
Which tribes did Genghis Khan unite?
When did Genghis Khan become Great Khan?
Who was Genghis's 3rd son?
When did Mongke Khan become Great Khan?
What was Kublai Khan's relation to Ogedei Khan?
Which tribes did Genghis Khan fight against?
 When did Genghis Khan kill Great Khan?
 Who was Genghis's 4th son?
 When did Mongke Khan kill Great Khan?
 What was Kublai Khan's opposition to Ogedei Khan?
Who did the Han Chinese want to help the Mongols fight?
What Khitan leader defected to the Mongols?
What Han Chinese leader defected to the Mongols?
How many soldiers were in each Tumen?
How many Khitan Tumens were there?
Who did the Han Japanese want to help the Mongols fight?
 What Khitan leader rejected the Mongols?
 What Han Chinese leader rejected the Mongols?
How many armies were in each Tumen?
 How many Khitan Tumens weren't there?
What ethnicity was Shi Tianze?
In what dynasty did Tianze live?
What kind of interethnic marriage became common in the Jin dynasty?
Who was Shi Tianze's father?
What dynasty did Zhang Rhou help attack?
What religion was Shi Tianze?
 In what dynasty did Tianze die?
What kind of interethnic marriage became uncommon in the Jin dynasty?
 Who was Shi Tianze's uncle?
 What dynasty did Zhang Rhou help defend?
Who led a Mongol attack on the Song dynasty?
Where did Mongke Khan attack the Song dynasty?
When did Mongke Khan die?
Who challenged Kublai Khan's right to succeed Mongke Khan?
What Chinese era name did Kublai adopt?
 Who led a Mongol defense on the Song dynasty?
 Where did Mongke Khan defend the Song dynasty?
 When was Mongke Khan born?
 Who defended Kublai Khan's right to succeed Mongke Khan?
 What Chinese era name did Kublai reject?
Who was Kaidu's grandfather?
Where did the Song dynasty continue to cause problems for Kublai?
Who did Kublai make the ruler of Korea?
Where did Korea border Kublai's territory?
When did Li Tan lead a revolt?
Who was Kaidu's uncle?
Where did the Song dynasty continue be peaceful with Kublai?
 Who did Kublai reject as ruler of Korea?
 Where did China border Kublai's territory?
 When did Li Tan reject a revolt?
What did Kublai's government have to balance between?
What natural resources did the Chinese government have a monopoly on?
What administrative division did Kublai leave unmodified?
How many societal class divisions were in the plan Kublai rejected?
Who would have been the lowest-ranked class?
What did Kublai's government not balance between?
 What natural resources did the Chinese government not have a monopoly on?
 What administrative division did Kublai leave modified?
 How many societal class divisions were in the plan Kublai approved?
 Who would have been the highest-ranked class?
Where had the Mongol capital been before Kublai moved it?
Where did Kublai move the Mongol capital to?
When did Kublai move the Mongol capital?
What city later became Beijing?
What rituals did Kublai follow to help his image?
Where had the Mongol capital been before Kublai destroyed it?
 Where did Kublai refuse to move the Mongol capital to?
 When did Kublai fail to move the Mongol capital?
What city later became Alaska?
 What rituals did Kublai follow to destroy his image?
What kinds of growth did Kublai encourage?
What does 'Pax Mongolica' mean?
Where did the Grand Canal start?
Where did Kublai extend the Grand Canal to?
Who described Kublai's China to Europe?
 What kinds of growth did Kublai discourage?
What does 'Pal Monqolica' mean?
 Where did the Grand Canal not begin?
Where did Kublai shorten the Grand Canal to?
 Who described Kublai's China to Asia?
Who did Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou flee with?
When did the Jin dynasty begin?
When did the Jin dynasty end?
Who was appointed as the replacement for Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou?
How many people in Quzhou are descended from Confucius?
 Who did Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou stay with?
 When did the Jip dynasty begin?
 When did the Jip dynasty end?
Who was rejected as the replacement for Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou?
Where did Kublai build his administration's strength?
When did Kublai attack Xiangyang?
What area was Kublai trying to capture by attacking Xiangyang?
What was the Song dynasty's capital?
How did the final Song emperor die?
Where did Kublai tear down his administration's strength?
 When did Kublai defend Xiangyang?
 What area was Kublai trying to capture by defending Xiangyang?
 Where was the Song dynasty's capital?
 How did the final Song emperor begin?
When was Kublai's administration running out of money?
What interfered with Kublai's second invasion of Japan?
Where did the Tran dynasty rule?
In what battle were the Mongols defeated by the Tran?
When were the Mongols defeated by the Tran?
 How was Kublai's administration running out of money?
 What interfered with Kublai's third invasion of Japan?
How did the Tran dynasty rule?
 In what battle were the Mongols joined by the Tran?
When was Dali conquered by the Yuan?
Who had Kublai wanted to succeed him?
When did Zhenjin die?
What was Temur Khan's Chinese-style name?
When did Temur rule?
When was Dali defended by the Yuan?
 Who had Kublai wanted to precede him?
 When did Zhenjin have a son?
 What was Temur Khan's Japanese-style name?
 When did Temur die?
Who was the 4th to rule the Yuan dynasty?
What did the Mongol elites wish Buyantu didn't do?
Who mentored Buyantu?
What government department did Buyantu shut down?
When did Buyantu resume testing potential government employees?
 Who was the 3rd to rule the Yuan dynasty?
 What did the Mongol elites wish Buyantu do?
 Who refused Buyantu?
 What government department did Buyantu approve?
When did Buyantu stop testing potential government employees?
Who was Ayurbarwada's son?
When was Geegen the emperor?
Who did Gegeen appoint as grand chancellor?
What did 'Da Yuan Tong Zhi' mean?
How many rival princes were involved in assassinating Gegeen?
Who was Ayurbarwada's daughter?
 When was Geegen the senator?
 Who did Gegeen appoint as grand senator?
 What did 'Di Yuan Shi' mean?
 How many rival princes were involved in living with Gegeen?
Where did Yesun Temur die?
What was the civil war against Ragibagh also called?
How long after a banquet with Tugh Temur did Kusala die?
Who was thought to have killed Tugh Temur?
Who took the throne after Kusala's death?
How did Yesun Temur die
 What was the civil war against Ragibagh never called?
 How long after a banquet with Tugh Temur did Kusala have a child?
 Who was thought to have loved Tugh Temur?
Who took the throne after Kusala's uprising?
What was Tugh Temur known for?
What academy did Tugh Temur found?
When did Tugh Temur found his academy?
What was the most notable publication of Tugh's academy?
What religions did Tugh Temur follow?
 What was Tugh Temur not known for?
 What academy did Tugh Temur destroy?
 When did Tugh Temur destroy his academy?
 What was the least notable publication of Tugh's academy?
 What religions did Tugh Temur reject?
When did Tugh Temur die?
What Chinese-style name did Rinchinbal use?
How old was Toghun Temur when he became emperor?
How many successors of Kublai was Toghun the last of?
Which dynasties' histories were officially documented during Toghun's reign?
When was Tugh Temur born?
 What Chinese-style name did Rinchinbal reject?
 How old was Toghun Temur when he became senator?
 How many successors of Kublai was Toghun the first of?
Which dynasties' histories were unofficially documented during Toghun's reign?
What problems did the Yuan dynasty have near its end?
Why did Kublai's successors lose control of the rest of the Mongol empire?
Who were later Yuan emperors isolated from?
What were the Yuan armies too weak to stop?
What were later Yuan emperors disinterested in?
What problems did the Yuan dynasty have near its beginning?
 Why did Kublai's successors win control of the rest of the Mongol empire?
 Who were later Yuan emperors isolated with?
 What were the Yuan armies too strong to stop?
What were later Yuan emperors interested in?
When did the Yuan people suffer a series of natural disasters?
What uprising began in 1351?
Why did Toghun Temur dismiss Toghtogha?
Who had Toghtogha tried to defeat?
When was the Ming dynasty in power?
 When did the Yuan people suffer a series of unnatural disasters?
 What uprising ended in 1351?
 Why did Toghun Temur approve Toghtogha?
 Who had Toghtogha tried to defend?
 When was the Ming dynasty out of power?
What encouraged trade under the Yuan?
What encouraged cultural exchange under the Yuan?
What was the Yuan's Persian ally?
What crops were introduced or popularized in the Yuan?
What discouraged trade under the Yuan?
 What discouraged cultural exchange under the Yuan?
 What was the Yuan's Persian enemy?
What type of musical instruments did the Yuan bring to China?
Besides Confucianism, Buddhism, and Islam, what religions were tolerated during the Yuan?
What religion did the Yuan discourage, to support Buddhism?
What type of practices did the Yuan reintroduce in government?
What fields of study were advanced during the Yuan?
 What type of musical instruments did the Yuan keep out of China?
Besides Confucianism, Buddhism, and Islam, what religions were not tolerated during the Yuan?
 What religion did the Yuan encourage, to support Buddhism?
 What type of practices did the Yuan introduce in government?
 What fields of study were not advanced during the Yuan?
Who was the first known European to visit China and return?
What did Polo call the Yuan capital?
What was the English title of Polo's book?
What was the Italian title of Polo's book?
How did some suspect that Polo learned about China instead of by actually visiting it?
Who was the last known European to visit China and return?
What did Polo call the Yuan semi-capital?
 What was the Spanish title of Polo's book?
 What was the Irish title of Polo's book?
What astronomer worked for Kublai?
How accurate did Guo make the reformed lunisolar calendar?
What did Kublai do to prevent famines?
What city did the Grand Canal reach during the Yuan?
What major crop was brought to China from the west?
What astronomer hated Kublai?
How accurate did Guo make the formed lunisolar calendar?
 What did Kublai do to expediate famines?
 What city did the Grand Canal never reach during the Yuan?
 What major crop was brought to Japan from the west?
The Yuan was the first time all of China was ruled by whom?
What did Mongols worship?
What legitimate dynasty came before the Yuan?
What legitimate dynasty came after the Yuan?
Some Chinese considered the Yuan a legitimate dynasty, but what did other Chinese think it was?
The Yuan was the first time all of Japan was ruled by whom?
 What did Mongols refuse to worship?
 What illegitimate dynasty came before the Yuan?
 What illegitimate dynasty came after the Yuan?
What cultures were part of Kublai's administration?
What dynasties inspired the Chinese-like elements of Kublai's government?
Who were two of Kublai's Chinese advisers?
What kind of division of power did Kublai's government have?
What were the three parts of Kublai's government?
What cultures were not part of Kublai's administration?
What dynasties inspired the Japanese-like elements of Kublai's government?
 Who was the third of Kublai's Chinese advisers?
 What kind of division of power did Kublai's government never have?
Who had military control during the Yuan?
When had the Six Ministries existed?
Who were exempt from the Ministry of Justice?
Who had no real military power during the Yuan?
 Who had military control during the Yuan?
 When had the Eight Ministries existed?
 Who weren't exempt from the Ministry of Justice?
 Who had no real military power after the Yuan?
When was Phags-pa script invented?
Which languages used the Phags-pa script?
How well did the Mongol Emperors know Chinese?
The mother of which emperor was a concubine?
What was Tugh's Chinese-style name?
 When was Phags-pa script destroyed?
Which languages rejected the Phags-pa script?
 How poorly did the Mongol Emperors know spoken Chinese?
The father of which emperor was a concubine?
 What was Tugh's Japanese-style name?
By what year was selling children into slavery common among the Mongols?
When did Kublai ban the international Mongol slave trade?
How were the Mongol garrison families earning money?
By what year was selling children into slavery uncommon among the Mongols?
 When didn't Kublai ban the international Mongol slave trade?
How weren't the Mongol garrison families earning money?
What type of arts flourished in the Yuan?
Which arts were often practiced together by the same artists?
What dynasty shared artistic inspiration with the Yuan?
What form of poetry was developed in the Yuan?
What was a popular type of variety show during the Yuan?
What type of languages flourished in the Yuan?
 Which sciences were often practiced together by the same artists?
 What dynasty didn't share artistic inspiration with the Yuan?
 What form of songwriting was developed in the Yuan?
Which khanates had converted to Islam?
Which religion did Kublai prefer?
What was the Yuan's unofficial state religion?
What government agency supervised Buddhist monks?
What was Kublai's favorite sect of Tibetan Buddhism?
Which khanates had not converted to Islam?
 Which religion did Kublai reject?
 What was the Yuan's official state religion?
 What was Kublai's least favorite sect of Tibetan Buddhism?
When was Zhu Shijie born?
When did Zhu Shijie die?
What modern math concept did Zhu Shijie do work similar to?
What type of math was advanced during the Yuan?
When did Zhu publish 'Jade Mirror of the Four Unknowns'?
When was Zhu Shijie ruler?
When did Zhu Shijie get a new job?
What modern math concept did Zhu Shijie do work different from?
What type of math was not advanced during the Yuan?
When did Zhu publish 'Jade Mirror of the Five Unknowns'?
What did Guo Shoujing do for calendars?
What did Gou use for astronomy?
What was the Chinese name of Gou's calendar?
What was the English name of Gou's calendar?
When did Gou's calendar become the official calendar of the Yuan?
What did Guo Shoujing not do for calendars?
 What did Gou use for science?
 What was the Chinese name of Gou's math?
 What was the English name of Gou's math?
 When was Gou's calendar rejected as the official calendar of the Yuan?
Who were otachi?
What type of medicine did otachi focus on?
What type of medicine did Mongol shamans use?
What department did Kublai create to train doctors?
Why did Confucians like the medical field?
Who were potachi?
 What type of medicine did otachi reject?
 What type of medicine did non-Mongol shamans use?
 What department did Kublai create to bother doctors?
Why did Confucians hate the medical field?
How many schools of medicine were recognized in China?
How did the Yuan come to have the 4 schools of medicine?
How did Chinese medicine spread?
What techniques did Chinese medicine include?
When did Wei Yilin die?
How many schools of medicine were recognized in Japan?
 How did the Yuan come to have the 8 schools of medicine?
 How did Chinese medicine stay in one place?
What techniques did Chinese medicine never include?
What was huihui?
Who founded the Office of Western Medicine?
When was the Office of Western Medicine founded?
What aspect of Western medicine did the Chinese dislike?
What philosophies underlay Chinese medicine?
What was hoho?
Who founded the Office of eastern Medicine?
 When was the Office of Eastern Medicine founded?
 What aspect of Western medicine did the Chinese like?
 What philosophies overlay Chinese medicine?
How did the Mongols acquire Chinese printing technology?
Who wrote the Nong Shu?
When was earthenware movable type invented?
Who was Ogedei's wife?
When was the Imperial Library Directorate established?
How did the Mongols acquire Japanese printing technology?
 Who rejected the Nong Shu?
 When was earthenware movable type destroyed?
 Who was Ogedei's husband?
 When was the Imperial Library Directorate not established?
What was the Yuan's paper money called?
What were chao made out of?
When did the Yuan begin using bronze printing plates for its money?
What had the Yuan used to print its money before bronze plates?
When did the Il-khanate experiment with paper money?
What was the Yuan's plastic money called?
What were show made out of?
When did the Yuan begin using gold printing plates for its money?
 What had the Yuan used to print its money before plastic plates?
 When did the Il-khanate stop experimenting with paper money?
What Mongolian system did Kublai's government compromise with?
What Chinese system did Kublai's government compromise with?
Who were the Semuren?
How did the unequal treatment of Chinese versus Mongols in the Yuan make the dynasty seem?
Where were Persians more successful compared to Chinese in the Yuan?
What Mongolian system did Kublai's government uncompromise with?
 What Chinese system did Kublai's government not compromise with?
Who were the Samuron?
 How did the equal treatment of Chinese versus Mongols in the Yuan make the dynasty seem?
Who did the Mongols bring to China as administrators?
Who did the Mongols send to Bukhara as administrators?
Where in Central Asia did the Han Chinese move?
What types of work did the Han do in Central Asia?
Who was made Governor of Samarqand?
Who did the Mongols bring to Japan as administrators?
 Who didn't the Mongols send to Bukhara as administrators?
 Where in Central Asia didn't the Han Chinese move?
 What types of work did the Han do in Eastern Asia?
What Yuan policies did Muslims dislike?
What Jewish practice did the Yuan ban?
Who founded the Ming dynasty?
What was the second meaning of a Chinese word for 'barracks'?
Who revolted in the Ispah Rebellion?
What Yuan policies did Muslims like?
 What Jewish practice did the Yuan keep?
 Who founded the Ding dynasty?
 What was the second meaning of a Japanese word for 'barracks'?
 Who was obediant in the Ispah Rebellion?
Who thought that the Yuan's social class system shouldn't be called social classes?
What did Mote think the Yuan class system really represented?
There were many Chinese with what unexpected status?
There were many Mongols with what unexpected status?
Who thought that the Yuan's social class system should be called social classes?
 What did Mote think the Yuan class system didn't represent?
There were many Chinese with what expected status?
There were many Mongols with what expected status?
Which part of China had people ranked higher in the class system?
Which part of China had people ranked lower in the class system?
Why were Southern Chinese ranked lower?
Why were Northern Chinese ranked higher?
Who did the Yuan's increase in commerce help?
Which part of Japan had people ranked higher in the class system?
Which part of Japan had people ranked lower in the class system?
 Why were Eastern Chinese ranked lower?
Why were Western Chinese ranked higher?
 Who did the Yuan's decrease in commerce help?
Who did the Mongols give control of Korea?
Who was the Uighur King of Qocho ranked above?
Who was the Karluk Kara-Khanid ruler ranked above?
Why were the Uighurs ranked higher by the Mongols?
Who did the Mongols refuse control of Korea?
 Who was the Uighur King of Qocho ranked below?
 Who was the Karluk Kara-Khanid ruler ranked below?
 Why were the Uighurs ranked lower by the Mongols?
What region of China is Hebei part of?
Who governed the Central Region in the Yuan?
Where was the Central Secretariat based?
What modern city did Khanbaliq become?
What was the Chinese name for the Central Secretariat?
What region of Japan is Hebei part of?
 Who governed the northern Region in the Yuan?
Where was the Central non-Secretariat based?
 What modern city did Khanbaliq not become?
 What was the Japanese name for the Central Secretariat?
The immune system protects organisms against what?
What are the agents the immune system detects known as?
Which part of the immune system protects the brain?
What separates the neuroimmune system and peripheral immune system in humans?
What are the agents detected by the immune system called?
What are the two different types of immunity?
What are the two major subsystems of the immune system?
What is the immune system of the brained known as?
What is the system of many biological structures and processes that protect an organism from cold?
What is not an example of a pathogen?
What is the immune system unable to distinguish from healthy tissue?
What is the immune system of the stomach known as?
What connects the peripheral immune system to the neuroimmune system?
What happens when the immune system less active than normal?
What is the term for a hyperactive immune system that attacks normal tissues?
What field involves the study of the immune system?
What acquired condition results in immunodeficiency in humans?
What is not caused by disorders of the immune system?
What kind of medicine can cause autoimmunity?
What causes the immune system to treat foreign organisms like normal tissues?
What is not a condition that causes immunodeficiency?
What is a rare autoimmune disease?
Who won the Nobel Prize in 1905?
What did Robert Koch prove was the cause of infectious disease?
What virus did Walter Reed discover?
When was the first known historical reference to immunity?
What is a science that examines the structure and function of the brain?
When is the latest known reference to immunity?
What scientist experimented with snake venom in the 18th century?
Whose theories supported the miasma theory?
When did Robert Koch discover the yellow fever virus?
What type of immune systems are found in all plants and animals?
What immune system is activated by the innate response?
What allows the adaptive immune system to react faster and more strongly each subsequent time a pathogen is encountered?
What is the first line of defense against pathogens that prevents them from entering an organism?
What exposes organisms to infection?
What is not prevented from entering an organism?
What is activated before the innate response in vertebrates?
What is gotten rid of after a pathogen has been eliminated?
What causes the organism to attack more slowly and weakly every time a pathogen is encountered?
The adaptive immune system must distinguish between what types of molecules?
What molecules are parts of the body of an organism in immunology?
What molecules are recognized as foreign by the immune system?
What term is shorthand for antibody generators?
Antigens bind to what in order to elicit a response of the immune system?
What does not depend on the immune system's ability to distinguish between the self and others?
What is a one class of self molecule?
What can not be distinguished from foreign substances by the immune system?
What do self molecules bind to?
What happens when an antigen fails to bind to an immune receptor?
What part of the innate immune system identifies microbes and triggers immune response?
For most organisms, what is the dominant system of defense?
Pattern recognition receptors recognize components present in broad groups of what?
The innate immune system responds in a generic way, meaning it is what?
What do toxins that fail to enter an organism encounter?
What causes the innate response to be disarmed?
What kind of cells fail to send out alarm signals?
What defenses respond to pathogens in a specific way?
What system gives an organism long lasting immunity against a pathogen?
What is a mechanical barrier in insects that protects the insect?
What is an example of a mechanical barrier on leaves?
What responses protect the lungs by mechanically ejecting pathogens from the respiratory system?
What is secreted by the respiratory tract to trap microorganisms?
The flushing action of what expels pathogens from the eyes?
What kind of barrier does not protect organisms from infection?
What is an example of a chemical barrier?
What is the last line of defense against infection?
What ejects pathogens from the gastrointestinal tract?
What is not an example of a mechanical barrier?
What are the anitmicrobial peptides secreted by the skin called?
What enzymes in saliva are antibacterial in nature?
Semen contains what in order to kill pathogens?
What compounds in the stomach protect against ingested pathogens?
Vaginal secretions serve as a chemical protective barrier following what?
What does the respiratory tract secrete in order to promote infection?
What enzyme is not an antibacterial?
What fluids are enzymes not found in?
When do vaginal secretions become less acidic?
What provides chemical protection to pathogens?
What serves as a biological barrier by competing for space and food in the GI tract?
Most antibiotics target bacteria and don't affect what class of organisms?
What probiotic flora is found in unpasteurized yogurt?
Commensal flora can change what specific conditions of their environment in the gastrointestinal tract?
What tracts does commensal flora help pathogens thrive in?
What does not compete with commensal flora for food and space?
What medicine can lead to a decline in fungi?
What food upsets the balance of microbial populations?
What is an infection caused by an overgrowth of bacteria?
What is one of the first responses the immune system has to infection?
What causes the symptoms of inflammation?
What compounds are released by injured or infected cells, triggering inflammation?
Eicosanoids include what compounds that result in fever and blood vessel dilation?
What cytokines are responsible for communication between white blood cells?
What is one of the last responses of the immune system to infection?
What is not a symptom that is caused by inflammation?
What substances do healthy cells produce?
What is a rare cytokine?
What chemical keeps immune cells away from the site of infection?
What type of cells engulf or eat pathogens and foreign particles?
Phagocytes can be called to a specific location by what?
When a pathogen has been eaten by a phagocyte it becomes trapped in what vesicle?
What is formed when a phagosome fuses with a lysosome?
Phagocytosis first evolved as means of doing what?
What patrols the body looking for phagocytes?
What drives phagocytes away from specific areas?
Where does a phagocyte get stuck in a pathogen?
How does the pathogen kill the phagocyte?
What was the role of phagocytosis before it was used to acquire nutrients?
What are two types of phagocytes that travel through the body to find invading pathogens?
What are the most abundant kind of phagocyte?
What percentage of leukocytes do neutrophils represent?
What is the process in which neutrophils move towards the site of inflammation called?
What is a regulatory factor produced by macrophages?
What are pathogens that travel through the body looking for phagocytes called?
Where are neutrophils rarely found?
What is the least abundant type of phagocyte?
What are usually the last cells to arrive at the scene of an infection?
What cell is unable to act as a scavenger?
What are white blood cells known as?
What cells are the second arm of the innate immune system?
Innate cells can act as mediators in the activation of what branch of the immune system?
What are three kinds of phagocytes?
What cells can't act independently?
What are leukocytes the first arm of?
What kind of cell is not an innate leukocyte?
What cells attack smaller pathogens through contact?
What are the least important mediators in the activation of the adaptive immune system?
What are the phagocytes that are located in tissues in contact with the external environment called?
Dendritic cells are named that because they resemble what?
What are one of the key cell types of the adaptive immune system?
Dendritic cells present antigens to what cells of the adaptive nervous system?
What are phagocytes in tissues that only have contact with the internal environment called?
What areas are dendritic cells not found in?
What is named for its resemblance to dendritic cells?
What appearance do dendritic cells and neuronal dendrites not share?
What serves as a barrier between bodily tissues and the nervous system?
What is one part of the innate immune system that doesn't attack microbes directly?
Natural killer cells recognize cells that should be targeted by a condition known as what?
Missing self desribes cells that only have small amounts of what cell-surface marker?
MHC antigens on normal body cells are recognized by what receptor on NK cells?
What part of the innate immune system directly attacks microbes?
What do NK cells protect?
Why are normal body cells attacked by NK cells?
How long was it clear how NK cells recognized tumors?
What accelerates NK cells?
In what types of organisms did the adaptive immune system first evolve?
The adaptive immune system recognizes non-self antigens during a process called what?
Antigen specificity  allows responses that are specific to certain types of what?
What evolved in later vertebrates?
What immune response is not antigen-specific?
What is not needed for adaptive immune responses?
What allows for responses that are not tailored to a specific pathogen?
What is used to eliminate a pathogen that infects the body once?
What are the two major subtypes of T cells?
What kind of T cells have the purpose of modulating the immune response?
Killer T cells can only recognize antigens coupled to what kind of molecules?
Helper and regulatory T cells can only recognize antigens coupled to what kind of molecules?
What class of T cells recognizes intact antigens that are not associated with MHC receptors?
What cells do not carry receptor molecules?
What do T cells recognize before antigens have been processed?
How many subtypes of B cells exist?
How many roles do the types of B cell have?
What do killer B cells recognize?
What kind of T cells kill cells that are infected with pathogens?
What is the receptor that killer T cells use to bind to specific antigens that are complexed with the MHC Class 1 receptor of another cell?
What co-receptor on the T cell helps in recognizing the MHC-antigen complex?
When an activated killer T cell finds cells where the MHC 1 receptor has specific antigens, it releases cytotoxins such as what?
What toxin induces apoptosis in the target cell?
What cells help breed cells that are infected with viruses?
What do Killer B cells kill?
When are Killer T cells deactivated?
What co-receptor makes recognition more difficult?
What allows ions, water and toxins to exit the target cell's membrane?
What co-receptor recruits molecules inside the T cell that are responsible for cell activation?
How many receptors on a helper T cell must be bound to a MHC:antigen complex in order for the cell to be activated?
The receptors on a killer T cell must bind to how many MHC: antigen complexes in order to activate the cell?
Activation of a helper T cell causes it to release what chemicals that influence cell activity?
What is a ligand on the cell surface that is upregulated after helper T cell activation?
What antigens do Helper T cells not recognize?
What has a stronger association with the MHC:antigen complex than killer T cells?
What are killer T cells dis-activated by?
What do helper T cells absorb?
What do B cells help T cells produce?
Gamma delta T cells share the characteristics of what other types of T cells?
Gamma delta T cells have a different version of what receptor?
What type of T cells help with both innnate and adaptive immunity?
Gamma delta T cells rearrange TCR genes to produce what?
What kind of human T cells respond to common molecules produced by microbes?
What cells do not possess an alternative T cell receptor?
What cells do gamma delta T cells not share characteristics with?
What is fully understood about γδ T cells?
What responds in small numbers to common molecules produced by microbes?
What kind of cell identifies pathogens when the antibodies on its surface complex with a specific foreign antigen?
What is the process by which the antigen/antibody complex is processed in to peptides?
What does the matching helper T cell release when it binds with the MHC:antigen complex of the B cell?
When does a T cell identify pathogens?
What are peptides processed into?
What attracts a matching helper B cell?
When do antibodies not circulate in?
What can antibodies not neutralize?
When B cells and T cells begin to replicate, what do some of their offspring cells become?
The function of long-lived memory cells is an example of what kind of immune response?
Immunological memory can take what two forms?
Long-lived memory cells can remember previous encounters with what?
What happens when B cells and T cells are deactivated?
What cells mount a weak response if a pathogen is detected again?
What is not a form of immunological memory?
Why are memory cells not considered adaptive?
What cells are unable to remember specific pathogens?
Newborns are vulnerable to infection because they have no previous exposure to what?
What antibody is transported from the mother to baby across the placenta?
Antibodies are transferred to the gut of the infant through what means?
Antibodies transported from the mother to an infant via the placenta is an example of what type of short-lived immunity?
What people are least vulnerable to infection?
How many layers of protection are provided by the father?
What antibody is transmitted from the father to the baby?
What is not present in breast milk?
What is not possible to transfer from one person to another artificially?
Hormones can alter the sensitivity of the immune system, so they can be referred to as what?
Female sex hormones are immunostimulators of which immune responses?
What is an autoimmune disease that affects women preferentially?
What is the effect of testosterone on the male immune system?
What keeps the sensitivity of the immune system at the same levels? 
When do autoimmune diseases often strike men?
What is a hormone that does not effect the immune system?
What male sex hormone is an immunostimulator?
What is an autoimmune disease that mostly strikes men?
What is a protein that is closely intertwined with circadian rhythms?
Disruptions in sleep can lead to increase in what chronic conditions?
What kind of deprivation results in diminished immune response and lower antibody production?
What has a stronger effect during sleep deprivation?
When is antibody production higher than normal? 
What protein does not effect T-cell differentiation? 
What chronic conditions can cause sleep deprivation?
What is not effected by natural light and dark cycles?
What is partially responsible for weakened immune response in older individuals?
As a person gets older, what does the skin produce less of?
The production of what signalling molecules is regulated by the immune system?
Older people get less sun and produce less of what chemical via UVB radiation?
What increases with age?
What do increased hormone levels cause in aging adults?
What hormones are independent from the immune system?
What causes elevated vitamin D levels in the elderly?
What becomes more adept at producing vitamin D as a person ages?
What type of immune cells help to destroy abnormal cells in tumors?
Lots of tumor cells have fewer of what type of molecule on their surface?
Tumor antigens are complexed with MHC class I molecules in the same way as what antigens?
The immune system also produces what molecules in order to allow for tumor destruction by the complement system?
What cells are used to multiply the abnormal cells?
What cells do helper B cells assist?
What antigens present differently than viral antigens?
What do helper T cells recognize killer T cells as?
What are antibodies never generated to fight?
Plants lack what kind of immune cells?
Plant cells respond to the molecules associated with pathogens known as what?
Cells of the site of an infection in a plant undergo what process to prevent spread of the disease?
What is a kind of defense response that makes the entire plant resistant to a particular agent?
What is a mechanism that can help plants block virus replication?
What cells do plants and animals both have?
What happens when all parts of a plant become infected?
What do cells away from the site of the infection undergo?
What cells undergo slow apoptosis?
What is unimportant in SAR?
What kind of disorders are the result of an overactive immune response?
In autoimmune disorders, the immune system doesn't distinguish between what types of cells?
Where are the specialized cells that eliminate cells that recognize self-antigens located?
Under normal conditions, T cells and antibodies produce what kind of peptides?
What disorder causes the immune system to distinguish between self and non-self?
What cell never reacts with self peptides?
What is the function of specialize cells located in the brain?
What cells are not eliminated by the immune system?
Where are specialized cells not located?
What kind of disorders occur when part of the immune system isn't active?
In what two age groups is the strength of the immune system reduced?
At what age do immune responses typically begin to decline?
What are some causes of reduced immune function in developed countries?
What is the most common cause of immunodeficiency in developing nations?
What occurs when all components of the immune system are active?
In what people is the immune system the strongest?
What is the rarest cause of poor immune function in developing countries?
What do diets with too much protein cause?
What does the loss of the thymus at an early age prevent?
By what process can active immunity be generated in an artificial manner?
What is the process of vaccination also known as?
In the process of vaccination, what is introduced in order to develop a specific immunity?
Vaccination exploits what feature of the human immune system in order to be successful?
When is short-term active memory acquired?
What cells do not play a role in long-term active memory?
What artificial method of spreading immunity causes disease? 
What does vaccination not exploit?
What is one of the least common causes of death in humans?
Bacteria often secrete what kind of proteins to ingest a physical barrier?
What kind of system of infection involves inserting a hollow tube into a host cell?
In a type III secretion system, proteins are transported to the host cell in order to do what?
The success of pathogens is predicated on their ability to do what?
What does the failure of a pathogen depend on?
How do viruses overcome physical barriers?
What do bacteria use to move proteins from the host to the pathogen?
What are bacteria unable to secrete?
What is used to shut down pathogen defenses?
Who formulated the idea of clonal selection theory of immunity?
What are two examples of nonself entities in accordance with Frank Burnet's theory?
What is the complex "two-signal" activation of T cells referred to?
What other scientist influence Frank Burnet when he was formulating his theory of immunity?
What theory did Niels Jerne formulate?
Who did Frank Burnet inspire with a suggestion?
What theory of immunity is no longer influential?
What did Jerne develop on the basis of CST?
What did Frank Burnet formulate before the 1950s?
What are the most powerful class of anti-inflammatory drugs?
Low doses of anti-inflammatories are sometimes used with what classes of drugs?
What are two examples of cytotoxic or immunosuppressive drugs?
What is an example of an immunosuppressive drug that prevents T cell activity by altering signal transduction pathways?
What is used to enhance the effects of inflammation?
What are the least powerful anti-inflammatory drugs?
What is not a side effect of glucocorticoids?
What are higher doses of anti-inflammatory drugs used with?
What drugs help T cells respond to signals correctly?
What are examples of differentiated effector cells that peak during wake periods?
What are two anti-inflammatory molecules that peak during awake hours?
Inflammation occurs during sleep times because of the presence of what molecule?
Melatonin during sleep can actively counteract the production of what?
What cells are at their lowest while people are awake?
Why do differentiated effector cells ebb during wake periods?
What molecules that promote inflammation peak during waking hours? 
What could inflammation do during sleep periods?
What could promote free radical production during sleep times?
What does a T cell extend when it encounters a foreign pathogen?
What is the active form of vitamin D known as?
What is the nature of the relationship between T-cells and vitamin D?
What gene is responsible for converting calcidiol into calcitriol?
Other than T cells, what other immune cells express CYP27B1?
What does a pathogen do when it encounters a T-cell?
What cell binds to vitamin C?
What vitamin do T-cells have a parasitic relationship with?
What gene is expressed by the B-cell?
What gene converts calcitriol into calcidiol?
What are the proteins that organisms use to identify molecules associated with pathogens?
What are the antimicrobial peptides that are the main form of invertebrate systemic immunity called?
What cell type is also used for immune response in most types of invertebrate life?
What pathway that plays a role in immune response to viruses is present in all eukaryotes?
What proteins are used by very few organisms?
What are peptides that help microbes flourish called?
What is not used by any form of invertebrate?
What does not play a role in the immune response to viruses?
Where are ribonucleases not conserved?
What molecules of the adaptive immune system only exist in jawed vertebrates?
What are two examples of primitive jawless vertebrates?
Primitive jawless vertebrates possess an array of receptors referred to as what?
Evolution of what part of the immune system occurred in the evolutionary ancestor of jawed vertebrates?
What evolved in modern jawed vertebrates?
What only exists outside of jawed vertebrates?
What primitive jawed vertebrates do not contain lymphocyte-derived molecules?
What are produced from a large number of genes?
What molecules are repelled by pathogenic antigens?
Invertebrates do not generate what type of cells that are a part of the vertebrate adaptive immune system?
What is the main defense mechanism of bacteria known as?
The restriction modification system is used by bacteria for protection from what pathogens?
What is the system by which prokaryotes retain phage gene fragments that they have previously come in contact with?
Where is it unlikely that the first multicomponent, adaptive immune system arose?
What arose in the latest vertebrates?
What mechanisms do many species not utilize?
What kind of immunity do prokaryotes not have?
What has often been studied in unicellular eukaryotes?
What were the two main theories of immunity at the end of the 19th century?
Who was the main proponent of the cellular theory of immunity?
Under Elie Metchnikoff's cellular theory, what cells were responsible for immune response?
What two scientists were proponents of the humoral theory of immunity?
According to the humoral theory of immunity, what were the bodies immune agents?
What was suggested in immunology before the 19th century?
Who was the main detractor of the cellular theory of immunity?
Who were the main detractors of the humoral theory of immunity?
What did cellular theory claim was in an organism's humors?
Tumors that are able to evade the body's immune response can become what?
What receptors do tumor cells often have reduced concentrations of?
What is a chemical secreted by tumors that suppresses the immune response?
Cytokine TBF-B suppresses the activity of what cell types?
What is unable to evade the immune system?
What makes detection by killer T cells more likely?
What do tumor cells release that strengthens the immune response?
What does cytokine TGF-β encourage the activity of?
What happens when the immune system loses tolerance for tumor antigens?
What is the name for a response of the immune system that damages the body's native tissues?
How many classes of immune hypersensitivity are there?
What type of hypersensitivity is associated with allergies?
What is the chemical that mediates Type 1 hypersensitivity?
Antibody-dependent hypersensitivity belongs to what class of hypersensitivity?
What is an immune response that heals the body's own tissues?
What is divided into five classes?
What is not a symptom of type I hypersensitivity?
What type of hypersensitivity takes between two and three weeks to develop?
What occurs when antibodies will not bind to the patient's cells?
What is the process by which pathogens evade the immune system by hiding inside the host cells called?
What food bacteria is an example of intracellular pathogenesis?
What is the eukaryotic parasite responsible for malaria known as?
What bacteria lives inside a protective capsule that serves to prevent cell lysis?
What protein does Staphylococcus aureus produce to make antibodies ineffective?
What strategy is used by pathogens to encounter the innate immune system?
What is it called when a pathogen spends most of its lifecycle outside of host cells? 
Where does a pathogen come in direct contact with immune cells, antibodies and complement?
What secretes pathogens that enhance the host's immune response?
What do bacterial surface proteins not bind to?
What is the process by which the adaptive immune system is evaded by the chainging of non-essential epitopes called?
What is an example of a virus that uses antigenic variation?
What is an example of a parasite that used the antigenic variation strategy to evade destruction?
What compounds can be masked with the molecules of the host cell in order for a virus to evade detection?
What are the less complex mechanisms used to do?
What is the most complex way to avoid the adaptive immune system?
What is a pathogen that does not use antigenic variation?
What does not explain the failure of vaccines directed at the HIV virus?
What is a parasite that always uses the same surface protein?
What is the process by which the immune system identifies tumors called?
What is the virus in humans that causes cervical cancer?
What is an example of an enzyme that can transform skin cells into tumors when expressed at high levels?
What are cancerous tumors of the skin known as?
What are the skin cells that can be transformed into tumors known as?
What is not an important role of the immune system?
What do tumors express that are also found on normal cells?
What is not a cause of tumor antigens?
What happens when tyrosinase is expressed at low levels?
What is a fourth possible source for tumor antigens?
At what size and larger can drugs elicit a neutralizing immune response?
What kind of amino acids are overrepresented in epitope regions?
What is the study of proteins involved in immune response known as?
There is a public database of epitopes for pathogens known to be recognizable by what cells?
What is the field of studying immunogenicity through bioinformatics known as?
What kind of immune response do smaller drugs provoke?
What does the neutralizing immune response mean for drugs based on smaller peptides and proteins?
What is not a way that is used to predict the immunogenicity of peptides and proteins?
What is underrepresented in epitope regions?
What is the study of small sets of proteins?
Drop in the blood levels of cortisol and epinephrine results in increase levels of what hormones?
Hormones released during sleep support the interaction of T-cells and what species?
Sleep hormones shift the cytokine balance to which cytokine?
Sleep hormone release supports formation of immune memory by initiating what immune response?
What does sleep have no effect on?
What rises during early slow-wave-sleep stage?
What slows down immune functions during sleep?
What hormones are produced mostly when awake?
What do hormones produced during this time stop from interacting?
The immune systems of bacteria have enzymes that protect against infection by what kind of cells?
What are antimicrobial peptides that evolved as immune defense in eukaryotes called?
The idea of acquired immunity in jawed vertebrates is the basis of what medical treatment?
What is the ability to recognize and adapt to new specific pathogens called?
What is known for adapting and evolving slowly?
What do simple unicellular organisms lack?
What is an example of a less sophisticated defense mechanism that jawed vertebrates have?
What creates immunological memory before the initial responds to a pathogen?
What medical treatment is completely different from acquired immunity?
Complement proteins bind to what kind of molecules on the surface of microbes in order to elicit an immune response?
The speed of the killing response of the human immune system is a product of what process?
What type of cascade results when complement proteins bind to microbes and activate their protease activity?
How can the deposition of compliment kill invader cells directly?
What is this kind of response activated by plants?
What triggers a slow killing response?
What has nothing to do with the speed of the response?
What do complement proteins activate before they bind to the microbe?
What repels immune cells?
What organization is the IPCC a part of?
What UN organizations established the IPCC?
What does the UN want to stabilize?
What is the UN's climate change treaty?
What UN resolution endorsed the IPCC?
What is the intergovernmental body under the control of the United States?
What organization was responsible for setting up the IPCC?
Who refused to endorse the IPCC?
What organization can only certain members belong to?
What is one of the minor treaty's on climate change?
Who is the chair of the IPCC?
What nationality is Hoesung Lee?
Who is the vice-chair of the IPCC?
Who was the first chair of the IPCC?
When did Pachauri resign as chair of the IPCC?
Who is the President of the IPCC?
What year did Hoesung Lee become President?
Who was President of the IPCC before Hoesung Lee?
In what year did El Gizouli resign from the IPCC?
Who was the first President of the IPCC?
Who is on the IPCC Panel?
How many people attended the 2003 IPCC meeting?
What kind of people attend the IPCC meetings?
How much of the IPCC attendees are government representatives?
Which non-governmental groups are participants of the plenary sessions?
Which IPCC sessions are open to everyone?
What year did more than 375 officials attend the IPCC Bureau session?
Which sessions had a majority attendance from non-governmental organizations?
What session did the IPCC panel attend before the opening ceremonies?
When was the IPCC Trust Fund founded?
Who started the IPCC Trust Fund?
Who funds the IPCC's Secretary?
Who funds the IPCC's Deputy Secretary?
What rules does the IPCC have to follow?
To what trust does the IPCC give funding?
Which organization covers the cost of the President of the IPCC?
When was UNEP founded?
Who distributes money from the annual trust fund?
Who is not required to follow financial rules and regulations?
What does the IPCC not do?
Where do IPCC reports get their information?
What is 'grey literature'?
What kind of non-peer-reviewed sources does the IPCC use?
Who is responsible for monitoring climate data?
What organization does climate related research?
What guidelines are used for IPCC reviews?
What must all research be according to the IPCC guidelines?
What is an example of a peer-reviewed resource?
How many coordinating lead authors does an IPCC report chapter have?
How many lead authors does an IPCC report chapter have?
How many contributing authors does an IPCC report chapter have?
Who assembles the authors' contributions?
Who do coordinating lead authors report to?
What is the one lead author responsible for?
How many chapters have coordinating lead authors?
Who do the contributing authors report to?
Who has the responsibility for publishing materials?
Who do the lead authors prepare graphs and data for?
What does the WG I Summary for Policymakers report say human activities are doing to greenhouse gases?
What do increased greenhouse gases cause?
How much of the greenhouse effect is due to carbon dioxide?
What is the scenario called in which we don't change our greenhouse gas creation practices?
How much has global mean surface air temperature changed in the last century?
What summary says that human activity is responsible for the earths cooling?
How much are CO2 levels expected to increase under the business as usual scenario?
How much are CO2 levels expected to increase over the next 100 years?
What do climate models predict will increase by as much as 0.6 degrees C in the next 100 years?
When will enhanced greenhouse effect reach alarming levels?
When was the joint statement on climate change issued?
How many organizations issued the joint statement on climate change?
Which journal was the joint statement published in?
How sure did the statement say scientists were that temperatures would keep rising?
How much did the statement predict global surface temperature would increase by 2100?
In what year did 12 national science academies issue a joint statement on climate change?
Which society was responsible for the publication of the joint statement?
What journal was the facts of climate change published in?
Who concluded that CO2 would raise by 90%?
What year is average CO2 levels expected to increase by 90%?
Which IPCC author criticized the TAR?
What did Lindzen criticize about the Summary for Policymakers?
Who responded to Lindzen's criticisms?
What was Houghton's role?
What did Houghton say is necessary for any changes to the SPM?
Which organization faithfully summaarized the WGI report?
Who is one of the authors of the WGI Summary?
Who has said that climate models are uncertain?
Which organizations delegates has a disagreement with the SPM?
Changes to what have the support of scientific evidence?
How does the IPCC prepare Special Reports?
When was the Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation (SRREN) issued?
When was the Special Report on Managing Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation (SREX) issued?
Why were the 2011 Special Reports issued?
Which organization only has the responsibility for writing climate assessment reports?
Which reports follow a different procedure than the assessment reports?
Which year were two assessment reports finalized?
What is one of the two assessment reports published in 2011?
What 2011 report was requested by the IPCC?
What other activities does the UNFCCC require the IPCC to run?
What is used to estimate emissions?
Levels of what things are used to determine emission factors?
What councils assign tasks to the IPCC?
Who runs the UNEP Council?
Which organization does the UNFCCC processes support?
What is one of the minor functions of the IPCC?
Who is responsible for running the National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Programme?
What measures the levels of fuel consumption?
What did the IPCC say was mistaken?
What did the IPCC apologize for?
What was the source of the mistake?
What report had the correct date?
Which date was affirmed by the IPCC?
What did policymakers create for the IPCC?
Who was given a projection included in the final summary?
What was the name of the WWF report?
What was Robert Watson's role in the IPCC?
What direction did Watson say the mistake went in?
What was Martin Parry's role in the IPCC?
What was the topic of the error?
What was the verdict on other alleged errors?
Who said that climate change has been overstated?
Who should be concerned with the trend to under state the effects of climate change?
Who published an error regarding the Himalayan glaciers?
What substantial error put the IPCC research in doubt?
Who created assessments that were found to have substantial errors?
When was the paper published that the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph was based on?
Who wrote the paper that the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph was based on?
What is the nickname for the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph?
What reconstructions supported the 1999 paper's information?
Which graph was prominently featured in the second assessment report?
What year was the third assessment report published?
What was lacking in the second assessment report?
Which report depicted lesser temperature variations?
In which area was the 1995 report based?
What range of years was the current warming compared to?
Who led the Science and Environmental Policy Project?
Where did Singer hold a press conference in May 2000?
When did Singer dispute the graph at a Senate hearing?
What Senate committee did Singer speak to in July 2000?
Which years did studies find that warming was exceptional?
Who argued for including the graph in the final report?
What did Karlen and Singer present to the US senate?
On what date did John Lawrence Daly present the IPCC 1995 report?
Which graph was supported by McIntyre and McKitrick?
Who was the chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce?
Who was Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations?
When did Barton and Whitfield demand climate research records?
Who was chairman of the House Science Committee?
Who said Barton's investigation was "misguided and illegitimate"?
To whom did Rep. Joe Barton write a letter?
Who kept the full records on climate research?
Who suggested that the investigation was legitimate?
Who were scientists intimidated by?
Which council's investigation found no statistical failings?
When was the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report published?
When was the IPCC Third Assessment Report published?
How many Medieval Warm Period reconstructions were used?
How many Medieval Warm Period reconstructions covered 1,000+ years?
What problem did some tree ring data have?
What report excluded a graph showing temperature reconstruction?
How many temperature reconstructions were included in the second assessment report?
Who calibrated newer studies?
Who analysed the Medieval Cold Period?
How many reconstructions covered more than 10,000 years?
When was a study published confirming the 2001 IPCC projections?
How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality for 2001-2006?
How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality on temperature levels?
How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality on sea levels?
What did the 2007 IPCC report suggest had been decreasing? 
For how many years had temperatures been studied in the 2001 report?
Which projections suggested that temperatures would rise, but that sea levels would decrease?
Which projection overstated the rate at which temperatures would rise?
Below what levels were the projected sea levels in the 2001 IPCC projection?
What danger did the IPCC understate?
How much did the IPCC Third Assessment Report say sea levels will rise from 1990 to 2100?
How much do researchers now think sea levels will rise from 1990 to 2100?
When was the Third Assessment Report published?
How much greater were 1990 sea levels than those anticipated in the year 2100?
What was the projection of sea level increases in the forth assessment report?
Who projected the 1990 levels in the third assessment report?
Which study suggests that previous estimates were overstated?
How much lower did researchers suggest sea levels would be in 2100 as compared to 1990?
What role did Michael Oppenheimer have in the IPCC's reports?
Who published the State of the Planet 2008-2009 report?
What approach did Oppenheimer advocate?
Who was the author of the fourth assessment report?
When was the fifth assessment report written?
What reports did Michael Oppenheimer suggest needed to contain a broad exploration of certainties? 
Where are dissenting opinions published?
In which magazine did Oppenheimer defend the consensus approach?
What has successfully dealt with ozone depletion?
What did the Kyoto Protocol try to address?
Whose goals often still oppose the IPCC?
Kyoto Protocol dealt with which depletion?
What process do both science and governments follow?
What goals do both science and government have in common?
Who do states and governments often work in lockstep with?
What will be assured because of the political response to the linear model?
Who said people involved in the ozone situation had "a better understanding of scientific ignorance and uncertainties"?
What remain unsolved problems with the Kyoto Protocol?
What conflicts did the ozone mitigation reduce?
Who ordered the Stern Review?
Who stated that that scientific ignorance was what caused uncertainties of global warming?
What metaphors explained global warming? 
What did everyday relevance to popular culture explain?
What does the public see an an imminent danger?
What was one of the problems solved by the Kyoto Protocol?
What does the IPCC rely on for research?
What can the IPCC's report deadlines cause to be omitted?
Who is seen as the ultimate climate change authority?
What organization is responsible for their own research?
Who benefits from the research carried out by the IPCC?
What area of science is understanding slowly changing?
What report has the problem of a lack of scientific confidence?
How many scientists called to change the IPCC in Feb 2010?
Where was the Feb 2010 call for change published?
What was one proposal to let the IPCC respond to new evidence faster?
How was it suggested that the IPCC avoid political problems?
What date was the Fourth Assessment Report published?
In which journal did five lead IPCC authors call for support of the IPCC?
Who called for more government oversight into the IPCC?
What did the IPCC complain was happening from government oversight?
What is one way the current IPCC responds to new evidence quickly?
What is the only divisor besides 1 that a prime number can have?
What are numbers greater than 1 that can be divided by 3 or more numbers called?
What theorem defines the main role of primes in number theory?
Any number larger than 1 can be represented as a product of what?
Why must one be excluded in order to preserve the uniqueness of the fundamental theorem?
What is the only divisor besides 1 that a product can have?
What are numbers greater than 1 that can be divided by 6 or more numbers called?
What can any number larger than 6 can be represented as?
A number larger than -3 can be represented as a product of what?
Why must -1 be excluded in order to preserve the uniqueness of the fundamental theorem?
What is the name of the property that designates a number as being prime or not?
What is the name of the process which confirms the primality of a number n?
What is the name of one algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of large numbers? 
What is the name of another algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of large numbers? 
As of January 2016 how many digits does the largest known prime consist of?
What is the name of the property that designates a number as being efficient or not?
What is the name of the process which confirms the primality of a decimal digits?
What is the name of one algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of decimal digits?
What is the name of another algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of decimal digits?
As of January 2016 how many primalities does the largest known prime consists of?
How many prime numbers exist?
Who established the amount of prime numbers in existence?
What type of behavior in primes is it possible to determine?
What theorem states that the probability that a number n is prime is inversely proportional to its logarithm?
When was the prime number theorem proven?
How many chosen numbers exist?
Who established the amount of chosen numbers in existence?
What type of behavior in chosens is it possible to determine?
What theorem states that the probability that a number n is prime is inversely proportional to its direction?
When was the random number theorem proven?
What is the name of the supposition that any number larger than 2 can be represented as the sum of two primes?
What is the name of the supposition that there are infinite pairs of primes whose difference is 2?
Besides the analytic property of numbers, what other property of numbers does number theory focus on?
What is the application of prime numbers used in information technology which utilizes the fact that factoring very large prime numbers is very challenging?
What is the name of one algebraic generalization prime numbers have inspired?
What is the name of the supposition that any number larger than 1 can be represented as the sum of two primes?
What is the name of the supposition that there are infinite pairs of primes whose difference is prime?
Besides the analytic property of Goldbach's conjecture, what other property of Goldbach's conjecture does number theory focus on?
What is the application of prime numbers used in information technology which utilizes the fact that factoring very large prime numbers is expressed in the sum of two primes?
What is the name of one algebraic generalization Goldbach's conjecture has inspired?
 Any even number larger than what cannot be considered prime?
What are the specific divisors of all even numbers larger than 2?
What name is given to any prime number larger than 2?
Besides 1,3 and 7, what other number must all primes greater than 5 end with?
What type of numbers are always multiples of 2?
Any even number larger than what cannot be considered distinct?
What are the specific divisors of all even numbers larger than 1?
What name is given to any prime number larger than 1?
Besides 1,3, and 7, what other number must all distinct divisors greater than 5 end with?
What type of numbers are always multiples of distinct divisors?
What number did early Greeks not regard as a true number?
Who included 1 as the first prime number in the mid 18th century?
In the mid 18th century, who did not concur that 1 should be the first prime number?
How many primes were included in Derrick Norman Lehmer's list of prime numbers?
What type of number do modern mathematicians consider 1 to be?
What number did Henri Lebesgue not regard as a true number?
Who included 1 as the first prime number in the mid 20th century?
In the mid 20th century, who did not concur that 1 should be the first prime number?
How many primes were included in the early Greek's list of prime numbers?
What type of number did the early Greeks consider 1 to be?
Which theorem would be invalid if the number 1 were considered prime?
The sieve of Eratosthenes would not be valid if what were true?
What is one function that prime numbers have that 1 does not?
What is another function that primes have that the number 1 does not?
If 1 were to be considered as prime what would the sieve of Eratosthenes yield for all other numbers?
Which theorem would be invalid if the number 15 were considered prime?
The sieve of Euler would not be valid if what were true?
What is one function that prime numbers have that 15 does not?
What is another function that primes have that the number 15 does not?
If 15 were to be considered as prime what would the sieve of Eratosthenes yield for all other numbers?
What is the name of the Egyptian papyrus that suggests that they may have had knowledge of prime numbers?
What civilization was the first known to clearly study prime numbers?
What work from around 300 BC has significant theorems about prime numbers?
Who demonstrated how to create a perfect number from a Mersenne prime?
What does the Sieve of Eratosthenes do?
What is the name of the Egyptian papyrus that suggests that they may have had knowledge of infinite numbers?
What civilization was the first known to clearly study infinite numbers?
What work from around 3000BC has significant theorems about infinite numbers?
Who demonstrated how to create an infinite number from a Mersenne prime?
What does the Sieve of Euclid do?
In what year did Pierre de Fermat declare Fermat's little theorem?
Besides Leibniz, what other mathematician proved the validity of Fermat's little theorem?
Of what form do Fermat numbers take?
To what extent did Fermat confirm the validity of Fermat numbers?
Of what form do Mersenne primes take?
In what year did Pierre de Fermat declare Euler's little theorem?
Besides Beibniz, what other mathematician proved the validity of Euler's little theorem?
Of what form do Euler numbers take?
To what extent did Fermat confirm the validity of Euler numbers?
Of what form do Euler primes take?
What is the most elemental way to test the primality of any integer n?
What makes the method of trial division more efficient?
Trial division involves dividing n by every integer m greater than what?
What must the integer m be less than or equal to when performing trial division?
How many divisions are required to verify the primality of the number 37?
What is the most elemental way to test the primality of any division?
What makes the method of primality more efficient?
Trial division involves dividing n by every integer m less than what?
What must the integer m be greater than or equal to when performing trial division?
How many divisions are required to verify the division of the number 37?
How many modern types of primality tests for general numbers n are there? 
What is the name of one type of modern primality test?
What is the name of another type of modern primality test?
What type of algorithm is trial division?
When using a probabilistic algorithm, how is the probability that the number is composite expressed mathematically?
How many modern types of algorithm tests for general numbers n are there?
What is the name of one type of modern algorithm test?
What is the name of another type of modern algorithm test?
What type of algorithm is probability division?
When using a probalistic primality, how is the probability that the number is composite expressed mathematically?
What is one straightforward case of a probabilistic test?
What does the Fermat primality test depend upon?
What type of numbers demonstrate a flaw with the Fermat primality test?
What is the name of one impressive continuation of the Fermat primality test?
What is the name of another compelling continuation of the Fermat primality test?
What is one straightforward case of a Carmichael test?
What does the Carmichael primality test depend on?
What type of numbers demonstrate a flaw with the Carmichael primality test?
What is the name of one impressive continuation of the Carmichael primality test?
What is the name of another compelling continuation of the Carmichael primality test?
Of what form are Sophie Germain primes?
Of what form are Mersenne primes?
What test is especially useful for numbers of the form 2p - 1?
What is the name of one type of prime where p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?
What is the name of another type of prime here p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?
Of what form are Sophie Germain tests?
Of what form are Mersenne tests?
What test is especially useful for tests of the form 2p-1?
What is the name of one type of test where p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?
What is the name of another type of test where p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?
What is the name of one type of computing method that is used to find prime numbers?
In what year was the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search project conducted?
the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search, what was the prize for finding a prime with at least 10 million digits?
What organization offers monetary awards for identifying primes with at least 100 million digits?
In what interval are some of the greatest primes without a distinct form discovered in?
What is the name of one type of computing method that is used to find 100 million primes?
In what year were 10 million projects conducted?
In the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search hat was the prize for finding a prime with at least 150,000 digits?
What organization offers monetary awards for identifying primes with at least 150,000 digits?
In what interval are some of the greatest primes without a distinct digit discovered in?
What is name of the function used for the largest integer not greater than the number in question?
Who first proved Bertrand's postulate?
For what size natural number does Bertrand's postulate hold?
How is the prime number p in Bertrand's postulate expressed mathematically?
On what theorem is the formula that frequently generates the number 2 and all other primes precisely once based on?
What is the name of the function used for the smallest integer not greater than the number in question?
Who first proved Bertrands prime?
For what size natural number does Chebyshev's postulate hold?
How is the prime number p in Chebyshev's postulate expressed mathematically?
On what theorem is the formula that frequently generates the number 2 and all other primes precisely twice based on?
What is another way to state the condition that infinitely many primes can exist only if a and q are coprime?
If a and q are coprime, which theorem holds that an arithmetic progression has an infinite number of primes?
What is the density of all primes compatible with a modulo 9?
If q=9 and a=3,6 or 9, how many primes would be in the progression?
If q=9 and a=1,2,4,5,7, or 8, how many primes would be in a progression?
What is another way to state the condition that infinitely many rows can exist only if a and q are coprime?
If a and q are coprime, which theorem holds that an arithmetic progression has an infinite number of wraps?
What is the density of all wraps compatible with a modulo 9?
If q=9 and a=3, 6 or 9, how many wraps would be in the progression?
If q=9 and a=1,2,4,5, 7, or 8, how many wraps would be in a progression?
What function is related to prime numbers?
What type of value would the zeta function have if there were finite primes?
What property of the harmonic series 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 + 1/4 + ... shows that there is an infinite number of primes?
What does it mean when a harmonic series diverges?
Of what mathematical nature is the Basel problem?
What function is related to Basel numbers?
What type of value would the Basel function have if there were finite primes?
What property of the harmonic series 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 +1/4 ... shows that there is an infinite number of Basels?
What does it mean when a Basel series diverges?
Of what mathematical nature is the prime problem?
When was the Riemann hypothesis proposed?
According to the Riemann hypothesis, all zeroes of the ζ-function have real part equal to 1/2 except for what values of s?
What does the Riemann hypothesis state the source of irregularity in the distribution of points comes from?
What type of prime distribution does the Riemann hypothesis propose is also true for short intervals near X?
What type of prime distribution is characterized about x/log x of numbers less than x?
When was the function hypothesis proposed?
According to the function hypothesis, all zeroes of the ζ-function have real part equal to 1/2 except for what values of s?
What does the Riemann hypothesis state the source of irregularity in the distribution of math zeroes from?
What type of zero distribution does the Riemann hypothesis propose is also true for short intervals near X?
What type of zero distribution is characterized about x/log x of numbers less than x?
When did Landau propose his four conjectural problems?
Which conjecture holds that every even integer n greater than 2 can be expressed as a sum of two primes?
As of February 2011, how many numbers has Goldbach's conjecture been proven to?
Which theorem states that all large odd integers can be expressed as a sum of three primes?
Which theorem states that every large even integer can be written as a prime summed with a semiprime?
When did Vinogradov propose his four conjectural problems?
Which conjecture holds that every odd integer n greater than 2 can be expressed as a sum of two primes?
As of February 2017, how many numbers has Goldbach's conjecture been proven to?
Which theorem states that all large even integers can be expressed as a sum of three primes?
Which theorem states that every large odd integer can be written as a prime summed with a semiprime?
What conjecture holds that there is an infinite amount of twin primes?
What is a twin prime?
Which conjecture holds that for any positive integer n, there is an infinite amount of pairs of consecutive primes differing by 2n?
Of what form is the infinite amount of primes that comprise the special cases of Schinzel's hypothesis?
What conjecture holds that there are always a minimum of 4 primes  between the squares of consecutive primes greater than 2?
What conjecture holds that there is an infinite amount of twin positives?
What is a twin positive?
Which conjecture holds that for any negative integer n, there is an infinite amount of pairs of consecutive primes differing by 2n?
Of what form is the infinite amount of positives that comprise the special cases of Schinzel's hypothesis?
What conjecture holds that there are always a minimum of 1 prime between the squares of consecutive primes greater than 2?
Besides the study of prime numbers, what general theory was considered the official example of pure mathematics?
What British mathematician took pride in doing work that he felt had no military benefit?
When was it discovered that prime numbers could applied to the creation of public key cryptography algorithms?
Besides public key cryptography, what is another application for prime numbers?
What type of number generators make use of prime numbers?
Besides the study of prime numbers, what general theory was considered the official example of the military?
What British mathematician took pride in doing work that he felt had no mathematical benefit?
When was it discovered that prime numbers could be applied to the creation of public key military algorithms?
Besides public key cryptography what is another application for military gear?
What type of number generators make use of military gear?
Assuming p is a prime other than 2 or 5, then, according to Fermat's theorem, what type of decimal will 1/p always be?
According to Fermat's theorem, what period does 1/p always have assuming p is prime that is not 2 or 5?
According to Wilson's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by p if some integer p > 1 is to be considered prime?
According to Wilson's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by n if some integer n > 4 is to be considered composite?
What condition what must be satisfied in order for 1/p to be expressed in base q instead of base 10 and still have a period of p - 1?
Assuming p is a prime other than 2 or 5, then according to Gluga's theorem, what type of decimal wil 1/p always be?
According to Gluga's theorem, what period does 1/p always have assuming p is a prime that is not 2 or 5?
According to Giuga's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by p if some integer p > 1 is to be considered prime?
According to Gluga's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by n if some integer n > 4 is to be considered composite?
What condition must be satisfied in order for p to be expressed in base 1 instead of base 10 and still have a period of p-1?
What is one type of public key cryptography algorithm?
What is another type of public key cryptography algorithm?
How many bits are often in the primes used for RSA public key cryptography algorithms?
On what type of exponentiation does the Diffie–Hellman key exchange depend on?
How many bits are typically used in the primes for the Diffie–Hellman key exchange?
What is one type of private key cryptography algorithm?
What is another type of private key cryptography algorithm?
How many bits are often in the primes used for RSA private key cryptography algorithms?
On what type of exponentiation does the prime logarithm key exchange depend on?
How many bits are typically used in the key exchange logarithms for for the Diffie-Hellman key exchange?
What type of insect employs the use of prime numbers in its evolutionary strategy?
Where do cicadas spend the majority of their lives?
Other than 7 and 13, what other year interval do cicadas pupate? 
What is the logic behind the cicadas prime number evolutionary strategy?
How much larger would cicada predator populations be if cicada outbreaks occurred at 14 and 15 year intervals?
What type of insect employs the use of Magicicadas in its evolutionary strategy?
Where do predators spend the majority of their lives?
Other than 7 and 13, what other year interval do predators pupate?
What is the logic behind the cicadas outbreak?
How much larger would cicada populations be if predator outbreaks occurred at 14 and 15 year intervals?
What does the word prime generally suggest?
For a field F containing 0 and 1, what would be the prime field?
What does it mean for a knot to be considered indecomposable?
How can any knot be distinctively indicated?
What is an additional meaning intended when the word prime is used?
What does the word component generally suggest?
For a field F containing 0 and 1, what would be the prime knot field?
What does it mean for a knot to be considered a p element?
How can any knot be a field of F?
What is an additional meaning intended when the word component is used?
What is the name of an algebraic structure in which addition, subtraction and multiplication are defined?
What is one general concept that applies to elements of commutative rings?
What is another general concept that applies to elements of commutative rings?
What is one condition that an element p of R must satisfy in order to be considered a prime element?
Under what condition is an element irreducible?
What is the name of an integer in which addition, subtraction, and multiplication are defined?
What is one general concept that applies to elements of general xy?
What is another general concept that applies to elements of general xy?
What is one condition that an element p of $ must satisfy in order to be considered a multiplicative inverse?
Under what condition is an element a general xy?
What theorem remains valid in unique factorization domains?
What is one example of a unique factorization domain?
What form do complex Gaussian integers have? 
What do a and b represent in a Gaussian integer expression? 
Of what form are rational primes?
What theorem remains valid in unique Gaussian primes?
What is one example of unique rational primes?
What form do complex rational primes have?
What do a and b represent in a rational prime expression?
Of what form are rational Gaussians?
In what theory is the idea of a number exchanged with that of an ideal?
What type of ideals generalize prime elements?
What type of number theory utilizes and studies prime ideals?
Which theorem can be simplified to the Lasker–Noether theorem?
What type of commutative ring does the Lasker–Noether theorem express every ideal as an intersection of primary ideals in?
In what theory is the idea of a number exchanged with that of Noetherian arithmetic?
What type of ideals generalize Noetherian arithmetic?
What type of number theory utilizes and studies Noetherian arithmetic?
Which theorem can be simplified to the prime ideals theorem?
What type of commutative ring does the prime ideals theorem express every ideal as an intersection of Noetherian arithmetic in?
What are the points of algebro-geometric objects?
What does factorization of prime ideals approximate?
In what type of ring can prime ideals be used for validating quadratic reciprocity?
What does quadratic reciprocity seek to achieve?
What are the points of quadratic objects?
What does factorization of quadratic equations approximate?
In what type of ring can prime ideals be used for validating number theory?
What does geometry ramification seek to achieve?
What exist both in quadratic equations and integers?
What happens to the norm when a number is multiplied by p?
To what may general global fields be transferred to or from?
Completing Q with respect to what will produce the field of real numbers?
What principle highlights the significance of primes in number theory
What happens to the norm when a number is multiplied by Q?
To what may general arithmetic questions be transferred to or from?
Completing p with respect to what will produce the field of real numbers?
What principle highlights the significance of real numbers?
What gets smaller when a number is prime?
Which French composer wrote ametrical music using prime numbers?
What is one work by Olivier Messiaen?
What is another piece created by Olivier Messiaen?
In which etude of Neumes rythmiques do the primes 41, 43, 47 and 53 appear in?
Messiaen says that composition with prime numbers was inspired by what?
Which French composer wrote metrical music using prime numbers?
What is one work by Neumes?
What is another piece created by Neumes?
IN which etude of Neumes rythmiques does the prime 19 appear in?
What does Neumes say that composition with prime numbers was inspired by?
Where does the Rhine empty?
What is the largest city the Rhine runs through? 
What river is larger than the Rhine?
How long is the Rhine?
Where is the Rhine? 
What country does the Rhine empty?
How long is the Rhine? 
What is the smallest nation that the Rhine runs through?
How long is the Netherlands?
In what country does the Danube empty?
What is the population of the Netherlands?
How long is the Germany?
Where does the name Rhine derive from? 
What is the French name for the Rhine? 
What is the Proto-Germanic adaptation of the name of the Rhine?
What century did the name of the Rhine come from?
What does the name The Rhine come from? 
What is the Rhine called in French?
What is the Proto-Germanic adoption of the Gaulish name of the Rhine?
What is the Rhine called in Dutch?
How was the Dutch name for the Rhine originally spelled? 
Where are the variant forms of the name of the Rhine in ancient languages derived from?
What century did the Germanic vocalism Rin come from?
What century did the spelling with Rh- in English Rhine come from?
What century did the French adopt the Germanic vocalism Rin-?
What is the conventional method to measure the Rhine? 
When was the scale to measure the Rhine introduced? 
Where does the Rhine river's measurement begin?
Where does the Rhine river's measurement end?
What has shortened the Rhine river? 
What is the conventional measurement of the Rhine? 
When was the measurement of the Rhine introduced? 
Where does the Rhine begin? 
Where does the Rhine end?
Why has the Rhine been shortened?
What is the length of the Old Rhine Bridge at Constance?
What is the length of Hoek van Holland conventionally measured in?
In what year was the Old Rhine Bridge shortened?
In what year did Hoek van Holland begin canalization projects?
How long is Lake Constance?
Near Chur, which direction does the Rhine turn? 
How long is the section of the Rhine near Chur?
What is the alpine valley that the Rhine flows through?
What is the natural dam that the Rhine flows through?
What is the other country the Rhine separates Switzerland to? 
Where does the Rhine make a distinctive turn to the north? 
How long is the section that turns north? 
What is the height of the section that turns north? 
What is the glacial alpine valley known as?
The Rhine forms the border between Austria and what other country? 
Where does the Rhine make a distinctive turn to the south?
How wide is the glacial alpine valley known as the Rhine Valley?
What is the name of natural dam that connects the Rhine Valley?
How long is Austria?
What is the height of the Swiss canton?
The Rhine forms an inland delta into which lake?
What is the delta in the Rhine delimited in the west by?
What is the delta in the Rhine delimited in the east by?
In local Alemannic dialect, what is the the singular form of the names of the islands formed by the Rhine?
What is the animal that the Rhine's islands are named after?
The inland delta at the mouth of the Rhine is with what Lake?
What delimits the delta of the Rhine in the East?
What delimits the delta of the Rhine in the west?
What did the Rhine branch off to form in Austria?
What is the Almannic dialect to describe the islands outside in Austria?
What forms Lake Constance into an inland delta?
What is the delta delimited in the South by?
What is the delta delimited in the North by?
What is one of the mammal animals that lives in the nature reserve and bird sanctuary?
What animal sometimes swims in the Rhine?
Where is the upper canal regulation of the Rhine?
What is the lower canal regulation of the Rhine?
Besides constant flooding, why else was there regulation of the Rhine?
After the Dornbirner Ach was diverted, where does the Rhine flow now?
What is expected with the continuous input of sediment into the Dornbirner Ach?
Where was the Rhine regulated with a lower canal?
Where was the Rhine regulated with an upper canal?
Why was the Rhine regulated? 
What was diverted and now flows parallel to the Rhine?
What will cause the lake near the Rhine to silt up?
Where is the western canal regulation of the Rhine?
Where is the eastern canal regulation of the Rhine?
What has water that is a lighter color than the Rhine?
Why was Lake Tuggenersee regulated?
What lake no longer has any silt?
How many bodies of water makes up Lake Constance? 
What lake connects the Rhine to Lake Constance? 
What does Obersee mean?
What does Untersee mean?
Which border does the Rhine flow from the south?
How many bodies of water makes up Lake Constance?
Besides Germany and Switzerland, where else is Lake Constance?
What mountainous region is Lake Constance by?
Where is the border of Swiss and Austria?
Lake Constance separates the German state Bavaria from what other one?
How many bodies of water make up the Rhine?
Where is the border of Bavaria?
Where is the border of Germany?
Which border does the Rhine flow from the north?
How many bodies of water make up the Obersee?
Why does the Rhine water fall into depths at the Rheinbrech?
Where does the cold and warm water meet the warm water?
What is the Island off of the German shore of the Rhine that this warm and cold water meet?
What Lake in a German island Mainau receives a fraction of the Rhine's flow?
How much of the lake connecting with the Rhine can you see from the German islands?
Where does the cold water mix with Lake Constance?
What island does the cold water flow of the Rhine and Lake Constance flow to?
A small fraction of the cold water flow from Lake Constance goes to what other lake?
What does the word Rheinrinne translate to?
What does the flow of the Rhine being visible depend on?
What water abruptly falls into the depths due to the greater density of warmer water?
What does the word Seerhein translate to?
What water is constantly visible along the entire length of the lake?
A large part of the flow is diverted off the island of Mainau into where?
What water has cold green waters?
After the Rhine emerges from Lake Constance, what direction does it flow?
What is the major tributary of the Rhine?
How much water does the Aare give to the Rhine?
Where is the highest point of the Rhine basin?
Where is the so-called Rhine Knee?
When the Rhine emerges from Lake Constance which way does it flow?
What is the major tributary for the Rhine? 
The Rhine gets how much water from the Aare?
What is the highest point of the Rhine basin called?
There's a rough border between Switzerland and what other country formed by the Rhine?
What is the major tributary of Lake Constance?
The Hochrhein more than doubles the Rhine's water discharge to what amount?
Where does Lake Constance emerge from?
What lake contains part of the Rhine Falls?
What is the lowest point of the Rhine basin called?
What is the first major city in the stream of the Rhine?
What is the bend of Rhine in Basel called? 
What is the boundary between the High and Upper Rhine? 
How long is the Upper Rhine Plain?
How wide is the Upper Rhine Plain? 
What is the first major city in the course of the Rhine?
What is the first major bend in the Rhine called?
The bend on the Rhine goes from the West to what direction?
What ends at this bend in the Rhine?
What is the legal boundary behind the High and Upper Rind?
What is the bend called where the overall direction of the Rhine changes from East to North?
What is the last major bend in the Rhine called?
What is the last major city in the stream of the Rhine called?
How long is the Central Bridge?
How wide is the Mainz Basin?
Which century was there a program to straighten the Rhine? 
What happened to the rate of flow in the Rhine during the Rhine straightening program?
What happened to the ground water in the Rhine during the Rhine straightening program?
Which canal was dug in France to carry Rhine's water?
What is the Bassin de compensation de Plobsheim in Alsace? 
What region of the Rhine was changed by the Rhine Straightening program?
When did the Rhine Straightening program begin?
What happened with the rate of flow in the Rhine with the straightening program?
What happened with the ground water level with the Rhine straightening program?
What carries a significant amount of the Rhine flow through France?
In which century was the Grand Canal d'Alsace ended?
What decreased the rate of flow and caused the ground water level to rise?
What caused the Lower Rhine region to be changed significantly?
In what century did all of the dead branches dry up?
In what century did the amount of forests on the flood plain increase?
What is the longest river in Germany?
Where does the Rhine encounter it's tributary the Neckar? 
What is the average discharge of the Moselle to the Rhine?
What is a main tributary to the Rhine that goes through Northeastern France and part of Belgium?
What is the average width of the Rhine?
The Rhine is the longest river in what country?
Which country does the Rhine encounter it's main tributaries?
Which of the tributaries in Germany contributes most? 
What country does the Moselle take the Rhine to?
How much does the Rhine discharge at the Dutch border?
What is the shortest river in Germany?
What is the average discharge of the Moselle to the Neckar?
How wide are the Jura Mountains?
How much water does the Rhine discharge at the French border?
How wide is the Moselle?
What flows between the Bingen and Bonn?
What gorge is between the Bingen and Bonn?
How was the Rhine Gorge formed?
What is the area called near the Rhine Gorge with castles from the middle ages?
What flows between Bingen and Bonn?
Where does the Middle Rhine flow between Bingen and Bonn?
What is the Rhine Gorge known for?
What is the section of the Rhine Gorge recognized by UNESCO called?
In what year was "the Romantic Rhine" site built?
How many country villages can be found at the UNESCO World Heritage Site?
What formation was created because the erosion ceased?
How many vineyards are located in the "the Romantic Rhine"?
What flows after Bingen and Bonn?
What contributed to water pollution in the Rhine? 
Where are a bulk of factories concentrated along the Rhine?
What is Europe's largest inland port?
What rive joins the Rhine in Duisburg? 
What does the Ruhr provide to it's community?
What did industry do to the Rhine until the 1980s?
Which section of the Rhine is most factories found?
What country has the most factories that pollute the Rhine?
What city has the largest inland port in Europe?
Which river joins the Rhine in Duisburg?
What was a major source of water pollution after the early 1980s?
Where are the least amount of the factories found?
What is Europe's smallest inland port?
What river separates the Rhine from Duisburg?
What river is considered to be not so clean nowadays?
Besides viniculture, what's a dominant economic sector of the Middle Rhine?
There's a UNESCO World Heritage site in the Rhine Gorge between the Koblenz and what?
What is the famous rock near Sanke Goarshausen?
What is considered the epitome of the Rhine romanticism? 
Besides viniculture, what is the other dominate economic sector in the middle rhine?
What is the Rhine Gorge listed as?
The Rhine Gorge is between Koblenz and what other city?
What is the famous rock called that the Rhine flows around?
Where is the famous rock the Rhine flows around?
What the least dominant economic sectors in the Middle Rhine area?
What is located after Rüdesheim am Rhein and Koblenz?
What was removed from the list of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites?
What is the name of the famous rock that the Rhine flows into?
Where are the most settlements located?
What city has the biggest port in Germany?
What is the Canal in Wesel? 
What does the Wessel-Datteln canal run parallel to?
What is the largest suspension bridge in Germany?
How wide is the Rhine in Germany between Emmrich and Cleves?
What part of the Rhine flows through North Rhine-Westphalia?
What is the region called that is the largest conurbation of the Rhine?
What is the largest port in Europe called?
What is the name of the longest bridge in Germany?
How wide is the Rhine in Germany?
Where does the Upper Rhine flow through?
What banks are usually sparsely populated and lack industrialization?
What city has one of the smallest ports in Germany?
What is the name of the shortest suspension bridge in Germany?
How wide is the second east-west shipping route?
What is the Dutch name for the Rhine?
What does the water flow of the Rhine merge with after flowing through Merwede?
How much of the water flow does the Waal get from the Rhine?
Which direction does two thirds of the Rhine flow outside of Germany?
Where does two thirds of the Rhine flow outside of Germany?
What does the Rhine merge with outside of Germany?
What's the name of where the Rhine branches off near Dordrecht?
How much of the of the water flow volume of the Rhine flows farther east?
Where do two thirds of the Rhine flow inside of Germany?
What sea does the Rhine flow out of?
What branches off away from Dordrecht?
If two thirds of the Rhine flows through the Maas, where doe the other one third flow through?
The Rhine redistributes into the Ijssel and what other body?
What does the Nederrikn's name change into?
Where does the Lek join? 
If two thirds of the Rhine flows through Waal, where does the other third flow through?
Other than the Ijssel, where does the water from the Pannerdens Kanaal redsitrubute?
How much of the Rhine flow does Ijssel carry?
What does the Nederrijn change it's name to?
Where does the Nederrijn change it's name?
How much water flows out of the Pannerdens Kanaal?
Where does the IJssel and Nederrijn redistribute into?
Where does the Lek separate?
How much of the Noord River flows into the North Sea?
What does the Lek change its name to?
What is the name for the smaller streams along the region northern Germany?
The smaller streams are used for what?
What is the name of the old north branch of the Rhine?
What is the translation of the old north branch of rhe Rhine?
What part of the Rhine flows west at Katwijk?
What name is used only for larger streams farther to the north?
What streams continue to carry water from the Rhine?
What is the the old south branch of the Rhine called?
When the Rhine took a right turn what did it create?
During what ages were the Limes Germanicus built?
What is the name of the Delta in the Netherlands? 
Where does the Delta in the Netherlands begin?
What is the nickname for the Delta in the Netherlands?
What is the least important natural region of the Netherlands?
What ends near the Millingen aan de Rijn?
What contributes the least amount of water to the area?
What is another name for Lake Constance?
What ends in the same delta?
At Millingen aan de Rijn where the Rhine splits, what does it change it's name to?
How many main flows are branched off from the Nederrijn?
What is the largest main branch of the Rhine?
What is the English translation of Het Scheur?
What is the translation of Oude Maas?
The southern flow retains the name IJssel until it flows into what?
The Beneden Merwede branches off from the northern branch into what?
What does the smallest and northern main branch begins as?
How many more flows carry insignificant amounts of water?
What flood impacted the Meuse?
What year did the flood that impacted the Meuse take place?
Where did the Meuse flow before the flood? 
What did the Merwede-Oude Maas form with Waal and Lek?
When did the Meuse and Waal merge?
When did the Meuse and Waal diverge further upstream at Gorinchem?
What year was St. Elizabeth born?
What year was it when St. Elizabeth flooded part of the North Sea?
What flows out of the former bay Hollands Diep?
From what years did St. Elizabeth live in the Hollands Diep bay?
What is the term for closing off rivers that are no longer connected?
What do closed rivers serve as after they close?
What changed the Rhine's Delta?
When was the construction that changed the Rhine's Delta?
What is one aspect of the hydrography of the former delta characterized by?
What changed the Delta in the first half of the 20th Century?
In what century did the marine bays join the sea?
What water runs out of the sea and out of the former marine bay?
What type of Delta is the Rhine-Meuse?
Besides rivers, what shapes the sedimentation of the rivers?
What does a high tide risk near lands? 
Between Brakel and what other city can the most landward tidal influence be detected?
What was not shaped by sedimentation of the rivers and tidal currents?
What area was the Delta Works constructed between?
What can weak tidal currents do?
What produces a lot of sedimentation that flows into the surrounding rivers?
The present Mediterranean Sea descends from what sea?
What period opened the Tethys Ocean?
What period did plates reverse directions to compress the Tethys floor?
Microplates squeezing and rotating created the features of what?
What pushed up the Pyrenees?
What period closed up the Tethys Ocean?
During what period was southern Europe discovered?
When did the Jurassic Period end?
During what period was the Tethys floor discovered?
Between which years did the Mediterranean Sea flow into the Tethys sea?
What rift system developed in the Alpine orogeny?
What elements from the rift system in the Alpine orogeny in Southwest Germany?
What time did a river system develop in the Upper Rhine Graben?
The Rhine and what other river drained the northern flanks of the alps?
What drained the southern flanks of the Alps?
What continued southward and is also considered the first Rhine river?
What did the ongoing Alpine orogeny cause before the Eocene?
During what period did the Alpine orogeny end?
How did the Rhine extend watershed southward? 
What period did the Rhine capture streams?
Where are the streams the Rhine captured?
What caused the Rhine to extend its watershed northward?
When were the Vosges Mountains captured by the Rhine?
What were the northern Alps flooded by?
What captured the Vosges Mountains?
What mountain range contains Lake Constance?
What period was 2.5 million years ago?
How many major ice ages have occurred? 
How far did the sea level drop in the ice ages?
In early Pleistocene, what direction did the Rhine flow?
During glacial times, where was the mouth of the Rhine located?
How long did the Ice Ages last?
How high did the sea level rise during the ice ages?
When did the Rhine travel southwest into the North Sea?
What country is the English Channel located in?
When did the last glacial start?
When did the last glacial end?
Which direction did the Rhine flow during the last cold phase?
How much lower was the North Sea in the last cold phase than it is today?
Besides the North Sea and the Irish Channel, what else was lowered in the last cold phase?
When did the the Pleistocene begin?
When did the Last Glacial Maximum peak?
What does the Atlantic Ocean flow into?
What is the sea level of the Irish Channel?
What is the sea level of the English Channel?
What was the source of the Rhine in the last Ice Age?
What stretched across middle Europe in the last ice age?
When was the Last Glacial Maximum?
What covered Scandinavia, the Baltics, Scotland, and the Alps in the last Ice Age?
What is the term for wind-blown dust in a tundra?
What was the source of the Rhine during the current last Ice Age?
What flowed through the tundra?
When did ice-sheets cover Asia?
When were the Alps formed?
When did Europe slowly begin to warm up from the last Ice Age?
What did frozen subsoil and expanded alpine glaciers begin to do?
Where did the discharge from glaciers go in Europe in the last Ice Age?
When did rapid warming begin and help vegetation?
When was Europe fully forested and recovered from the last Ice Age?
How many years did it take for the frozen subsoil to warm up?
How many years did it take for the Spring snow covers to melt?
What did the Rhine help to expand?
What exposed the former coasts of Europe?
When did tides and currents similar to our current system begin?
Why did natural sedimentation by the Rhine compensate the transgression bby the sea?
How long has the Rhine coastline been in the same location?
Why is the current sea level rising?
How quickly is the sea level rising?
When did tides and currents reach the highest sea-level rise?
How quickly is the sea level dropping?
How long has the ongoing tectonic subsidence in the southern North Sea been happening for?
How high is the natural sedimentation by the Rhine?
How old is the North Sea?
When was the Holocene?
Where did the Rhine occupy during the Holocene?
What country did the Rhine continue to rise during the holocene?
When did the formation of the Holocene Rhine-Meuse delta begin?
When did the Holocene end?
When did the Holocene Rhine-Meuse delta stop forming?
When was the Peel Boundary Fault discovered?
When did the Netherlands begin to occupy the Late-Glacial valley?
When have humans started impacting the delta?
What increased in the Rhine because of the land clearance in the upland areas?
What has increased sediment and delta growth also produced in the Rhine?
How many avulsions have occurred in the past 6000 yeas?
When did embankment of the major Rhine distributaries take palce?
How long have humans been impacting the delta for?
How many years has Bronze Age agriculture gone on for?
How many upland areas are in central Germany?
How long did peat mining from the Roman times last for?
What centuries did the Roman times take place within?
Where do the branches Waal and Nederrijn-Lek discharge to?
What do the Waal and the Nederrijn-Lek discharge throguh?
Where does the Ijssel branch flow?
What did the Zuider Zee brackish lagoon change into?
How many branches does the Rhine branch into?
Where does the North Sea discharge into?
When was the Zuider Zee brackish lagoon discovered?
What year did they stop digging the Pannerdens canal?
How many branches does the Zuider Zee brackish lagoon have?
In what century did the North Sea discharge into the Nederrijn river?
When was the Rhine first discovered?
The Rhine first formed a boundary between Gaul and what else?
Since when was the Rhine part of the areal of Hallstatt culture?
Who first wrote about the Rhine's discovery and border?
When did Herodotus discover the Rhine?
Herodotus traveled between what boundary?
What century was the Hallstatt culture discovered?
What century did Maurus Servius Honoratus give his Commentary on the Aeneid of Vergil to Herodotus?
When did Augustus die?
The Rhine and what other river were accepted as the Germanic frontier?
When did the Rhine stop being the Roman boundary?
Where are the upper Rhine and upper Danube crossed?
Which direction did Romans use to drift through the Rhine?
When did Augustus find Rome?
What did the people of Rome accept as the only fertile plain?
When was the Black Forest discovered?
When did the Roman empire fall?
What populations occupied the foreign territory between the modern Baden and Württemberg?
How many legions in five bases were along the Rhine by the Romans?
What did the number of legions in Roman times depend on?
Vetra and I Germanica and XX Valeria were the two legions for what?
What was the Colonia Agrippina's original name?
What does Colonia Agrippina's original name translate into?
How many wars did the Romans have along the Rhine?
When was the first Roman war?
How many legions for the Germania Inferior existed?
What legion did the Romans enter from the other side of the empire?
Who were the Pannonian troops allies with?
When did Germanic tribes cross the Rhine to migrate?
What did Germanic tribes establish with help from the Rhine?
What is the translation of Siebengebirge?
Who is the hero who killed a dragon on the Drachenfels?
Who threw gold into the Rhine, according to legend?
When did the "Germanic Heroic Age" end?
What did Hagen find after he was thrown into the river?
What kind of rock did the hero Siegfried discover?
Where did the hero Siegfried discover the rock?
Who threw Hagen into the river?
When did the Rhine become borders with Francia?
When was the Rhine fully within the Holy Roman Empire?
The Rhine flowed through Swabia, Franconia and what other location in the 10th Century?
Who sold the Upper Rhine to Burgundy?
When was the Upper Rhine sold to Burgundy?
When did Francia discover that the Rhine entered had entered their borders?
When was Middle and Western Francia formed?
When was the Holland empire formed?
When did the Archduke Sigismund of Austria die?
What was the name of the war that the Archduke Sigismund of Austria started?
What was the name of the time the Upper Rhine form a border between France and Germany?
What was a long term goal of French foreign policy along the Rhine?
Who established the Confederation of the Rhine?
When was the confederation of the Rhine?
When was the Rhine crisis?
What was the name of the peaceful era between France and Germany?
What borders did the French complete during the Middle Ages?
When was the Peace of Westphalia established?
When did the Peace of Westphalia last until?
When did Napoleon die?
When was Rhineland subject to the Treaty of Versailles?
When would the occupation of allies leave Rhineland?
After 1935, who would be forbidden to enter Rhineland?
What do some believe the Treaty of Versailles assisted in?
When did the German army reoccupy Rhineland?
When was the Treaty of Versailles written?
When did the Germany army enter Rhineland?
What year did Adolf Hitler's rise to power?
When did the the German army re-occupy Britain and France?
Where is the Rhine Bridge?
What was the Rhine considered to invaders in WWII?
When was Operation Market Garden?
What bridge did the Germans fail to demolish?
What was the Warsaw Pact war plan?
During what war did the Western Allies cross the Rhine bridge at Arnhem?
When did the Operation Market Garden of September end?
When did the Cold War begin?
How long did the Cold War last?
How many days did the U.S. forces participate in the Cold War?
What was the accepted length of the Rhine prior to 1932?
Who stated a change of the length of the Rhine?
in 1932 what was the Rhine measurement changed to?
Why was the Rhine measurement changed? 
When was the Rhine measurement corrected back to the original?
What year was the German encyclopedia Knaurs Lexikon written?
What year was the typographical error first corrected?
What year was the Dutch Rijkswaterstaat found?
When was the authoritative Brockhaus Enzyklopädie written?
How wide is the Rhine?
When was the current parliament of Scotland convened?
What act set out the Parliament's powers as a devolved legislature?
The legislative competence of the Parliament species what areas?
To what body are certain powers explicitly specified as being reserved for?
The Scottish Parliament may legislate as it pleases as long as the powers aren't already reserved by where?
What act convened the old parliament of Scotland?
When was the old parliament of Scotland convened?
What parliament has no power to legislate in any areas?
Which parliament has no ability to amend the terms of reference of the Scottish Parliament?
The meeting of the what took place on 12 March 1999?
What remained an important issue in Scottish national identity for many years?
How many hundred of years was Scotland directly governed by the parliament of Great Britain?
Why were the initial suggestions for a devolved parliament before 1914 shelved?
When was there a sharp rise in nationalism in Scotland?
What did Kllbrandon's report in 1973 recommend establishing?
What was not considered an important element in Scottish national identity?
The Second World War caused what to be shelved?
A decline in Scottish nationalism during the 1960s fueled what?
The only objective of the Kilbrandon Commission was what?
Harold Wilson published a report in what year?
Which sea was oil discovered in?
What campaigh did the Scottish National Party (SNP) run?
What did the SNP publicly opine about the oil revenues?
When did Prime Minister Wilson commit to some form of devolved legislature?
When was the final legislative proposals for a Scottish Assembly passed?
Discovery of gas in the North Sea resulted in what?
President Wilson committed his government to what in 1974?
Final proposals for a Scottish Assembly were passed by the United States Parliament in what year?
The "It's Scotland's oil" campaign resulted from the discovery of what in the South Sea?
Where was an elected assembly to be set up, under the terms of the Scotland Act of 1978?
How many of the Scottish electorate would need to for it on the referendum?
How did trying to establish a devolved Scottish Assembly go in 1979?
What percentage of the vote for a Scottish Assembly in favor of it?
What percentage of Scotland's voting population failed to actually vote?
51.6% was not in favor of what?
Under the Scotland Act of 1988, what would be set up in Edinburgh?
The referendum to establish a devolved Scottish Assembly succeeded in what year?
What percentage of the non-eligible voting population did not vote?
In the range between 1980 and 1990, what did demand for grow?
Whose control of the UK's government helped fuel a desire for a Scottish Parliament?
When was the Scottish Constitutional Convention held?
What provided much of the basis for the structure of the Parliament in 1995?
Demand for a Scottish Parliament declined in what year?
The 1989 Scottish Constitutional Convention provided very little basis for the structure of what?
The Campaign for Constitutional Convention was initiated as what type of group?
Who published its blueprint for devotion in 1995?
Where has the official home of the Scottish Parliament been since 2004?
Who designed the Scottish Parliament building?
What nationality is the architect Enric Miralles?
What shape are some of the buildings in the Parliament complex?
Who opened the new Parliament building on October 9, 2004?
Since 1904, the home of Scottish Parliament has been where?
What complex features flower-shaped buildings?
The down turned boat skylights are located in what lobby?
Queen Elizabeth I opened the new Scottish Parliament Building on what date?
French architect Enric Miralles helped design what building?
Where was Parliament's temporary home whilst the permanent building was being built?
Where were interviews held while the parliament was in its temporary building?
What was the building vacated twice to allow for?
Where was Parliament temporarily relocated to in May of 2000?
In May 2002, where would you go to address the Parliament?
Parliament's temporary home was on the Royal Mills in what area?
The Assembly Center was used to take what kind of photographs?
Which building was vacated three times to allow for the meeting of the Church's General Assembly?
In May 2010, Parliament was relocated where?
Who did the Parliament rent additional buildings from?
What  former administrative building was used for the MSP's offices?
What happened to the building on George IV Bridge when the Parliament was done with it?
What do the former Midlothian County Buildings face?
Which hall was used as Parliament's principle committee room?
The former administrative building of the Lothian Regional Council on George V Bridge was used for what?
What building was demolished in 2014?
What was originally built as headquarters of the pre-1875 Midlothian County Council?
Who moved to Hollywood in 2004?
Who is elected to serve as the Presiding Officer at the beginning of each parliamentary session?
Who is currently speaker of the Scottish Parliament?
What type of ballot is used to elect the Presiding Officer and deputies of the Parliament?
How many MSPs are there?
Who is responsible for operating the electronic voting equipment and chamber clocks?
Parliament elects two MSPs to serve as what officers?
Who are elected using an open ballot?
What type of clerk sits behind the Presiding Officer?
The former speaker of Parliament is whom?
The two former deputies of Parliament are whom?
Who is responsible for ensuring the Parliament works smoothly?
Who sets the work agenda and allocates time in the chamber?
How many seats must a political party have to be represented on the Parliamentary Bureau?
Who represents the Scottish Parliament at home and abroad in an official capacity?
Which group sets the time agenda?
Who is not responsible for ensuring Parliament runs smoothly?
Who disagrees with the timetable of business in the chamber?
Which officer represents the Scottish Police Force at home and abroad?
What is the seating arrangement of the debating chamber?
Why is the seating of the debating chamber arranged as it is?
How many seats are in the debating chamber?
How many members in the seats of the Scottish Parliament are members of the Scottish Government?
What can the non-elected members from the Scottish Government not do?
Which parliament has seating arranged in a straight line?
There re 231 seats in which chamber?
The Solicitor Official of Scotland has a seat in which chamber?
The Second Minister, Scottish cabinet ministers and whom sit in the front row in the debating chamber?
The smallest party in Parliament sits in the middle of what?
What is the parliamentary mace made of?
Where does the gold in the parliamentary mace come from?
What words are inscribed on the mace of parliament?
Who presented the mac to the Scottish Parliament when it was initially opened?
What is the mace displayed in?
What is inlaid with gold panned from French rivers?
The words There shall be a Scottish Parliament is inscribed around the foot of the what?
What was presented to the Scottish Parliament by the Queen in 1989?
What symbolizes that a partial meeting of Parliament is taking place?
The words Wisdom, Compassion, Justice, and Integration are inscribed on what?
Which month is the first in the year Parliament takes a two week vacation?
Where do plenary meetings take place?
Who are debates and meetings open to?
How much does it cost to gain entry to a parliament meeting?
What contains a nearly verbatim of parliamentary debates?
What typically sits Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?
Parliament typically sits from February to late what?
Plenary meetings in the debating chamber usually take place on Tuesday afternoons from 1pm to what?
What meetings are closed to the public?
What debates are closed to the public?
What day of the week does the Time for Reflection take place?
How long might a speaker address the members during the Time of Reflection?
Because speakers are drawn from across Scotland, what do the represent the balance of?
Who decides who gets to address the members of Parliament to share their thoughts on issues of faith?
What can faith groups ask the Presiding Officer to do for them?
The second item of business on Wednesdays is usually what?
What is the name for the period when members address speakers for up to four minutes?
The first item of business in the House of Lords is usually what?
Invitations to address the House of Commons are determined by whom?
Who decides who gets to speak in the chamber debates?
What is also decided by the Presiding Officer?
What does the Presiding Officer try to achieve a balance of between speakers?
What members typically open debates?
What language other than English has the Scottish Parliament had meetings in?
The Presiding Officer tries the achieve a balance between similar viewpoints and whom?
Who typically closes debates?
Closing speakers are given between 5 and how many minutes?
Succeeding speakers are usually allotted more what?
The Presiding Officer can increase speaking time if what?
What time do the MSPs normally decide on the motions and amendments from that day?
What is heralded by the sounding of the division bell?
What do MSPs who are not in the chamber when the division bell rings return to do?
How do members vote when there is a division?
How long does it take to know the outcome of a division?
At 5 am, each sitting day, the MSPs decide on what?
What is heralded by the sounding of the deciding bell?
When does the Presiding Officer put motions on the questions?
If there is no dissent, the Presiding Officer says what?
The outcome of what is known in hours?
What can often be predicted beforehand?
Who normally instructs members how to vote?
Who has the task of ensuring party members vote according to the party line?
What happens if a member doesn't vote the party line?
What type of issues are members typically allowed to vote as they please?
What can not be mostly predicted beforehand?
Who has the task of ensuring that party members don't vote according to party line?
The independence of which Parliament tends to be high?
Which type of rebellions are common in Scottish Parliament?
When is the Members Debate held?
How long does the Members Debate last?
Why are debates on proposed motions by an MSP conducted?
Who contributes to Members Business in addition to the proposer?
What does the minister who was the catalyst of the Members Business do by speaking after everyone else?
A "Members Debate" is usually held immediately before what?
Other member do not normally contribute to what?
What debate lasts for 55 minutes?
What debate is a debate on a motion proposed by an MSP who is not a Scottish minister?
Where is much of the work of the Scottish Parliament done?
What are committees in the Scottish Parliament compared to other systems?
What is one avenue being compensated for by having committees serve such a large role?
Taking evidence from witnesses is one of committees' what?
Where might committees meet outside of Parliament?
Very little of the work done by Scottish Parliament is done where?
The committees in Scottish Parliament are weaker then in other systems why?
Which group has a primary role scrutinizing witnesses?
Which group can not meet at other locations in Scotland?
Who are committees comprised of?
What do the membership of the committees reflect?
Different committees have what set out in different ways?
What type of committee is set down under the SP's standing orders?
What session is the Scottish Parliament in?
What compromises a large number of MSPs?
What group's membership does not reflect the balance of parties in Parliament?
Optional Committees are committees which are set down under what?
Mandatory Committees exists in the fifth session of what?
When are subject committees established?
How many ministries of the Scottish government does a committee typically correspond to?
Economy, Energy and Tourism is one of the what?
What is the Scottish Parliament currently in the fourth of?
What are established at the end of each parliamentary session?
Which committees do not reflect the balance of parties across Parliament?
What type of committees exist in the fifth Session?
What committee corresponds with one or more departments in the Spanish Government?
What is set up to scrutinize private bills submitted by party outsiders?
What topic do private bills typically have?
Who decides how land or property is allowed to be used?
What kind of committee considered legislation on the development of the Edinburgh Tram Network?
What group is set up to scrutinize public bills submitted to the Scottish Parliament?
Public bills normally refer to large-scale what?
Public Bill Committees have been set up to do what?
What group is set up to scrutinize private bills submitted to the Spanish Parliament?
What act sets forth the functions of the Scottish Parliament?
Who gave her royal assent to the Scotland Act of 1998?
What does the Scotland Act of 2012 extend?
What body constitutes the supreme legislature of Scotland?
Who has the role of holding the Scottish Government to account?
The Scotland Act 2002 extends the devolved what?
Who passed the Scotland Act of 1988?
Who granted royal assent to the Scotland Act of 1988?
The Scotland Act enabled the Spanish Parliament to pass what?
Who has no power to pass laws?
Where are reserved matters stated in the Scotland Act?
If a matter is not specifically reserved, who is it devolved to?
Why do police and fire services fall under the purview of the Scottish Parliament?
How much can the SP alter income tax in Scotland?
Setting speed limits was one of the further devolutions which was conferred by what act?
What includes all subjects which are not stated in Schedule 6 to the Scotland Act?
Who does not have the ability to alter income tax in Scotland?
Who has the ability to alter income tax in Scotland by up to 33 pence?
The 2002 Act granted further fiscal devolution including what?
What is the name of matters outside the legislative ability of the Scottish Parliament?
Issues dealt with at Westminster are not ones who is able to deal with?
Where are issues like abortion and drug policy legislated on?
Most aspects of transport safety is a subject dealt with by whom?
Unreserved matters are subjects who are where?
Who is able to legislate on issues that are reserved to Westminster?
What functions usually lie with US Government ministers?
Subjects that are inside the legislative competence of the Scotland Parliament are called what?
What may be presented to Parliament in various ways?
Who may introduce new laws or amendments to laws already on the books as a bill?
An MSP may introduce a bill as what?
Who may also submit private bills to Parliament?
How do bills pass through Parliament?
Presidents in the governing party introduce what laws?
A committee of the President can present what?
A member of what parliament can introduce a bill as a public member?
Who can introduce a bill as a public member?
What is stage 1 in the life of a bill?
What are presented to parliament in addition to the bill itself?
What do statements from the PO and member in charge of the bill also indicate?
Where are bills typically gestated in Stage 1?
If Parliament agrees in a vote to the general principle of a bill, what does it then proceed to?
Stage 2 of the bill is where who is in charge of the bill?
If none of Parliament agrees to the general principals of the bill, it proceeds to what Stage?
What stage usually takes place in the irrelevant committees?
What is submitted to only part of Parliament for a full debate?
What is the final stage of a bill in the Scottish Parliament?
How many parts does the consideration of a bill in Stage 3 have?
What vote on a bill takes place in Stage 3?
What type of amendments might members opposed to a bill put on the table?
When do members proceed to vote on whether they agree to the principles of the final bill?
Stage 4 is the final stage of what?
What is considered at a meeting of part of Parliament?
When do members vote of the beginning form of the bill?
"Wrecking amendments" are designed to encourage further what?
Who does the Presiding Officer submit the final bill to?
Why is the final bill passed to the Monarch?
What is the minimum amount of time before a bill can go into law?
Who is a bill referred to for a ruling on whether it's within the powers of the Parliament?
What does the template for bills passed by the Scottish Parliament include?
Before the bill has been passed, it becomes an Act of what?
The bill is submitted to whom before it is passed?
The acts of what government begin with a conventional enacting formula?
Acts of Spanish Parliament begin with what phrase?
The US Government can refer the bill to whom?
What party forms the Scottish Parliament?
Who is elected at the beginning of each term?
Who is eligible to toss their name in the hat to be First Minister?
Other than Scotland's Chief Law Officer, from whence are most ministers drawn from amongst?
Who makes formal appointment or dismissal decisions?
The parties that hold the minority of seats in Parliament form what?
Parliament elects a second minister from whom?
Very few ministers are drawn from amongst whom?
The Second Minister chooses whom?
What day of the week are general elections held?
What month, every four years, are the ordinary general elections held on?
Who may change the date by up to a month, on the proposal of the PO?
How many days does the Parliament have to nominate a First Minister after a General Election?
If an extraordinary election is held within less than six months before the date of an ordinary election, what does it do to the ordinary election?
Under the Scotland Act 1988, ordinary general elections are held when?
What may be varied by up to two months?
Who proposes the date of the poll not be varied?
Who can propose the date of the poll be varied by up to three months?
What enables the Scottish Parliament to scrutinize the government?
Who can question statements the First Minister or members of the cabinet make?
What does the First Minister deliver at the beginning of each parliamentary year?
What do the leaders of the opposition parties and other MSPs question the First Minister about?
How does the Scottish Parliament scrutinize the people?
The Second Minister can deliver what?
Before the statement is delivered, who is questioned?
Whom can the Second Minister deliver statements to?
What is set aside for question periods in the debating chamber?
On what day does a General Question Time take place?
Who may members direct questions towards during General Question Time?
What may members question the First Minister about directly during First Minister's Question Time?
How many general questions are available to opposition leaders?
What is the time when members can ask questions to only particular members of Scottiish Government?
A 60-minute long "Question Time" takes place at what time?
The Second Minister's Question Time takes place between what times on Thursdays?
Who asks supplementary questions and then a general question of the First Minister?
What is the number of Constituency MSPs?
How many members can voters choose to represent the constituency? 
When was there a reduction in the number of Scottish MPs?
What is the current number of electors currently in a Scottish Parliament constituency? 
Why do the island archipelagos comprise a smaller number of electors?
How many MSPs out of 139 are known as "Constituency MSPs"?
How are the 83 "Constituency MSPs" chosen?
Which islands compise a larger number of electors?
If a Constituency MSP is forced from Parliament, what does it trigger?
How are the total numbers of seats allocated to parties?
What method is used for tallying votes in the second vote of the ballot?
The party awarded a seat is the one with the highest what?
What set is a seat added to after being allocated?
How is the process of allocating seats repeated until all available seats have been determined?
The party with the lowest quotient is awarded what?
What is subtracted to its constituency seats?
What method is used in tallying votes in the first vote of the ballot?
The first vote of the ballot uses what method to tally the votes?
What does being an MSP share with the House of Commons?
When was the British Nationality Act passed?
How old most a person be to apply to be an MSP?
Members of which organizations are disqualified from sitting in the SP as elected MSPs?
What act sets the term for judging the boundaries of sanity to which individuals wishing to sit on the SP must adhere?
What job requires no qualifications?
The House of Lords introduced qualifications for which position?
Which job requires that member be under 18?
Which job does not require that the member be a citizen of the UK?
When the election produced an SNP majority government, what was it the first occurrence of?
Who did the SNP obtain 16 seats from?
By how much did Labour lead Lain Gray retain East Lothian?
How many seats did the SNP take from the Liberal Democrats?
What did the result of the SNP majority allow a referendum be held on?
The SNP gave how many seats to Labour?
Many of whose key figures returned to parliament?
Labour leader Iain Gray gave up East Lothian by how many votes?
The SNP gave eight seats to the Liberal who?
The loss of Edinburgh Pentlands really disappointed whom the most?
What was the seat of former party leader David McLetchie?
What net loss did the Conservatives suffer?
Who announced she would step down as leader of the Conservatives? 
Who congratulated the SNP while vowing to campaign against their referendum?
For the Liberals, the main disappointment was what?
Current party leader, David McLetchie lost what seat?
Who was elected on the Lothian global list?
Who announced that she would not step down as party leader?
Who congratulated the SNP on their loss?
What consequence of establishing the Scottish Parliament applies to Scottish MPs sitting in the UK House of Commons?
What are MPs unable to vote upon?
What phenomenon has led to criticism?
What party had a victory in the 2015 UK election?
MPs representing English constituencies can only veto laws affecting which country? 
The West Lutheran question is known as what?
Following the Liberal victory in 2015, standing orders were changed to do what?
Who was victorious in the 2005 UK election?
What question has not led to criticism?
What is an Islamic revival movement?
What aspects of life does Islamism seek to integrate itself into?
What goal does Islamism have when it comes to society and government?
What have the two different Islamist movements been described as oscillating between?
One strategy of Islamization is to seize power by what methods?
What is a non-Islamic revival movement?
 What aspects of life does Islamism not seek to integrate itself into?
 What goal does Islamism not have when it comes to society and government?
 One strategy of Islamization is to not seize power by what methods?
What process do moderate and reformist Islamists work within the boundaries of?
Where does Hamas originate?
What is the goal of Islamist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas?
What do radical Islamist organizations reject entirely?
On what basis do the radical Islamist organizations conduct their attacks?
What process do moderate and reformist Islamists not work within the boundaries of?
 Where does Pamas originate?
 What is the goal of non-Islamist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas?
 What do radical Islamist organizations accept entirely?
On what basis do the radical non-Islamist organizations conduct their attacks?
What exists between fundamentalist Islamism and reformist Islamism?
What did Olivier Roy state underwent a remarkable shift in the second half of the 20th century?
What did the Salafi movement put emphasis on?
What has Islamism been increasingly interdependent with following the Arab Spring?
Why do Islamists need democratic elections?
What exists between fundamentalist Islamism and non-reformist Islamism?
What did Olivier Roy state underwent a remarkable shift in the second half of the 21st century?
 What did the non-Salafi movement put emphasis on?
What has Islamism been increasingly interdependent with following the non-Arab Spring?
 Why don't Islamists need democratic elections?
What type of role that Islamism seeks makes it a somewhat controversial concept?
What do supporters of Islamism believe their views reflect?
The idea that Islam can be apolitical isn't able to be embraced by whom?
What does the inability to separate Islam from Islamism lead many in the West to support?
What do progressive moderates of Islam seek to separate?
What type of role that Islamism seeks makes it not a controversial concept?
 What don't supporters of Islamism believe their views reflect?
The idea that Islam can't be apolitical isn't able to be embraced by whom?
What does the inability to separate Islam from Islamism lead many in the Eest to support?
 What don't progressive moderates of Islam seek to separate?
What term do Islamists think should be applied to them?
What does a writer for the International Crisis Group think the concept of political Islam is a creation of?
What was apolitical Islam?
When was the heyday of secular Arab nationalism?
What, rather than Islamism, requires explanation?
What term don't Islamists think should be applied to them?
 What does a writer for the International Crisis Group think the concept of political Islam is not a creation of?
 What wasn't apolitical Islam?
 When was the heyday of secular non-Arab nationalism?
What, rather than Islamism, requires no explanation?
When did Western governments support fledgling Islamists?
What did some of the Islamist groups supported by the West later become to be seen as?
Western governments considered Islamists to be the lesser of two evils when compared to whom?
Who did the US provide aid to, to fight against the Soviet Union?
What did the non-Afghan veterans returning home have in addition to their prestige?
When did Eastern governments support fledgling Islamists?
What did some of the Islamist groups supported by the East later become to be seen as?
Western governments considered Islamists to be the worse of two evils when compared to whom?
 Who did the US refuse aid to, to fight against the Soviet Union?
What did the non-Afghan veterans returning home not have in addition to their prestige?
Who is the President of Egypt?
What relationship with Israel is Sadat for?
What was Sadat seeking by releasing Islamists from prison?
When did the so called gentlemen's agreement between Sadat and the Islamists break down?
How was Sadat rewarded by the Islamists for his attempts to bring Egypt into modern times and civilization?
Who is the President of Afghanistan?
 What relationship with Israel is Sadat against?
 What was Sadat not seeking by releasing Islamists from prison?
 When did the so called gentlemen's agreement between Sadat and the Islamists not break down?
How was Sadat rewarded by the Islamists for his attempts to keep Egypt from being in modern times and civilization?
What type of interpretation of Islam does Salafism promote?
What does Salafism in its harshest form encourage its followers to view the religion of others with?
Salafism posits that democracy is responsible for what type of horrible events of the 20th century?
Conservative Islam classifies Muslims who follow Shia interpretation as what?
What interpretation of Islam is, for many of the adherents, the "gold standard" of their religion?
 What type of interpretation of Islam does Salafism discourage?
What does Salafism in its harshest form discourage its followers to view the religion of others with?
Salafism posits that democracy is responsible for what type of horrible events of the 21st century?
Conservative Islam classifies non-Muslims who follow Shia interpretation as what?
What interpretation of Islam is, for many of the adherents, not the "gold standard" of their religion?
What type of movement is the Muslim Brotherhood?
What type of assistance to out of town students is the Muslim Brotherhood known for?
Why has the Muslim Brotherhood facilitated inexpensive mass marriage ceremonies?
The Muslim Brotherhood's competence compares well against what type of local governments?
What are incompetent government's commitment to social justice limited to?
 What type of movement is the non-Muslim Brotherhood?
What type of assistance to out of town students is the non-Muslim Brotherhood known for?
Why has the Muslim Brotherhood not facilitated inexpensive mass marriage ceremonies?
The Muslim Brotherhood's competence does not compare against what type of local governments?
What are incompetent government's commitment to social justice not limited to?
What was Iqbal studying in England and Germany?
What organization did Iqbal join in London?
What year did Iqbal return to Lahore?
Who was Iqbal a critic of?
What book was Iqbal's seven English lectures published as?
 What was Iqbal studying in Ireland?
 What organization did Iqbal join in France?
 What year did Iqbal leave Lahore?
 Who was Iqbal a supporter of?
 What book was Iqbal's eight English lectures published as?
What did Iqbal fear would weaken the spiritual foundations of Islam and Muslim society?
Iqbal worried that India's mostly Hindu population would do what to Muslim heritage and culture?
When Iqbal promoted ideas of greater Islamic political unity, what did he encourage ending?
When was Iqbal elected president of the Muslim League?
What did Iqbal's Allahabad address inspire?
What did Iqbal fear would strengthen the spiritual foundations of Islam and Muslim society?
 Iqbal worried that India's mostly Hindu population would not do what to Muslim heritage and culture?
 When Iqbal promoted ideas of greater Islamic political unity, what did he discourage ending?
 When was Iqbal elected vice president of the Muslim League?
 What did Iqbal's Allahabad address not inspire?
Who was an important figure in the twentieth-century Islamic revival in India?
Maududi was trained as a lawyer, but chose what professional for himself instead?
When did Maududi found the Jamaat-e-Islami party?
Who was an important early figure in the Islamic revival in India?
Though trained as a lawyer, what profession did Maududi pursue instead?
Where did Maududi exert the most impact?
Where did Maududi's books place Islam?
Who was not an important figure in the twentieth-century Islamic revival in India?
 Maududi was trained as a lawyer, but chose what religion for himself instead?
When did Maududi leave the Jamaat-e-Islami party?
 Where did Maududi exert the least impact?
 Where did Maududi's books not place Islam?
What did Maududi believe Muslim society could not be Islamic in the absence of?
Maududi believed that Islam needed what to be established?
What is the English translation of tawhid?
What type of revolution did Maududi advocate?
By what method did Maududi want to change the hearts and minds of individuals?
What did Maududi believe Muslim society could be Islamic in the absence of?
 Maududi believed that Islam needed what to not be established?
 What is the French translation of tawhid?
 What type of revolution did Maududi not advocate?
By what method did Maududi not want to change the hearts and minds of individuals?
When was the Muslim Brotherhood founded?
Where was the Muslim Brotherhood founded?
Who founded the Muslim Brotherhood?
The motto of the Muslim Brotherhood specifies what as being their constitution?
What influence did Al Banna wish to eliminate from the Muslim world?
When was the non-Muslim Brotherhood founded?
 Where was the non-Muslim Brotherhood founded?
Some elements of the Brotherhood directed what action against the government?
When was Al-Banna assassinated?
Who was Al-Banna's assassination a retaliation for the prior assassination of?
When was the Brotherhood first banned in Egypt?
What Egyptian president jailed thousands of members of the Brotherhood?
Some elements of the Brotherhood did not direct what action against the government?
 When was Al-Banna born?
Who wasn't Al-Banna's assassination a retaliation for the prior assassination of?
 When was the Brotherhood first accepted in Egypt?
What Egyptian president jailed hundreds of members of the Brotherhood?
What status has the Brotherhood obtained in the Islamic world?
For many years, what was the Brotherhood described as?
The Brotherhood was the only opposition group in Egypt able to do what during elections?
What percentage of seats did political parties identifying as Islamist win in the Egyptian parliamentary election of 2011-2012?
Who was the first democratically elected president of Egypt?
 What status has the Brotherhood obtained in the non-Islamic world?
 For many centuries, what was the Brotherhood described as?
The Brotherhood was the only opposition group outside of Egypt able to do what during elections?
What percentage of seats did political parties identifying as Islamist win in the Egyptian parliamentary election of 2012-2013?
 Who was the first democratically elected president outside of Egypt?
What was the defeat of the Arab troops at the hand of the Israeli troops during the Six-Day War?
The defeat of the Arab troops in the Six-Day War constituted what for the Arab Muslim world?
Secular Arab nationalism was blamed for both the defeat of Arab troops as well as what type of stagnation?
What happened to the credibility of secular politics as a result of the Six-Day War?
What gained ground when Arab nationalism suffered?
What was the defeat of the Arab troops at the hand of the Israeli troops during the Seven-Day War?
The defeat of the Arab troops in the Seven-Day War constituted what for the Arab Muslim world?
Secular Arab nationalism was blamed for both the success of Arab troops as well as what type of stagnation?
 What happened to the credibility of secular politics as a result of the Eight-Day War?
 What declined when Arab nationalism suffered?
Who was the ideologue of the Iranian Revolution?
Mohammad Iqbal was what type of father to the State of Pakistan?
Where does Khomeini's beliefs fall as compared to Mawdudi and Qutb?
Who was it essential to Islam to imitate?
What long term agenda was the acts of plundering Muslim lands by the West?
Who was not the ideologue of the Iranian Revolution?
 Mohammad Iqbal was what type of enemy to the State of Pakistan?
 Who was it essential for Islam to not imitate?
hat long term agenda was the acts of plundering Muslim lands by the East?
What Republic has maintained its control of Iran?
What type of sanctions has the US directed at Iran?
Iran has assisted what type of groups in Iraq?
When did the Iranian government enjoy something of a resurgence?
Who stated he wanted Israel to vanish?
What Republic has maintained its control of Afghanistan?
 What type of sanctions has Canada directed at Iran?
Iran has assisted what type of groups in China?
When did the Iranian government not get a resurgence?
 Who stated he did not want Israel to vanish?
Who deployed its army into Afghanistan in 1979?
What was the Soviet Union trying to suppress with its army?
What did the conflict galvanize Muslims around the world to do?
How effective was the military use of the "Afghan Arabs"?
How many Muslims came from around the world to fight in Afghanistan?
Who deployed its army into Iraq in 1979?
 What was the Soviet Union trying to motivate with its army?
 What did the conflict galvanize non-Muslims around the world to do?
 How ineffective was the military use of the "Afghan Arabs"?
How many Muslims came from Iraq to fight in Afghanistan?
What did the Gulf War inadvertently do in the early 1990s?
Whose occupation of Kuwait did the US military personal seek to put an end to?
Up until 1990, Saudi Arabia played an important role in restraining what groups?
What monarchy did western troops protect?
Whose puppet did Islamists accuse the Saudi regime of being?
 What did the Gulf War do on purpose in the early 1990s?
 Whose occupation of Kuwait did Iraq military personal seek to put an end to?
Up until 1990, Saudi Arabia played an unimportant role in restraining what groups?
 What monarchy did Eastern troops protect?
 Whose puppet did Islamists support the Saudi regime of being?
Who did the attacks resonate most with?
Where did American troops remain stationed after Saddam's defeat?
What did Saudi Arabia try to repress to compensate for its loss of stature? 
Where did a bloody civil war break out?
Who masterminded many terror attacks?
Who did the attacks resonate least with?
Where did American troops remain stationed after Saddam's win?
What did Saudi Arabia not try to repress to compensate for its loss of stature?
 Where did a not-bloody civil war break out?
 Who did not mastermind many terror attacks?
Whose ideas became increasingly radical during his imprisonment? 
When was Qutb executed?
What organization was led by Hasan al-Hudaybi?
What movements pursued a more radical direction?
When had the Brotherhood renounced violence as a means of achieving its goals?
Whose ideas did not become increasingly radical during his imprisonment?
 When was Qutb born?
 What organization was defeated by Hasan al-Hudaybi?
 What movements did not pursue a more radical direction?
When did the Brotherhood support violence as a means of achieving its goals?
Who took up the path of violence?
When did the Egyptian Islamic Jihad assassinate Anwar Sadat?
Which leaders did the Islamic extremists attack?
What sin were the leaders the extremists attacked guilty of?
Who wrote a pamphlet outlining the radical ideas of the extremists?
Who rejected the path of violence?
 When did the Egyptian Islamic Jihad support Anwar Sadat?
 Which leaders did the Islamic extremists not attack?
 What sin were the leaders the extremists attacked innocent of?
Who wrote a pamphlet outlining the non-radical ideas of the extremists?
What did al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya use to get its way?
Over 100 Egyptian police were victims of what group's campaign of terror?
How did the Islamic Group's campaign to overthrow the government turn out?
When did Jamaa Islamiya renounce violence?
Who has the Islamic Liberation Party attempted to assassinate? 
 What did al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya use to not get its way?
Over 300 Egyptian police were victims of what group's campaign of terror?
How did the Islamic Group's campaign to support the government turn out?
 When did Jamaa Islamiya accept violence?
 Who has the Islamic Liberation Party never attempted to assassinate?
Until 1987, what stance did the Muslim Brotherhood in Palestine take towards Israel?
What organization is devoted to Jihad against Israel?
What did the Hamas charter uncompromisingly encourage?
Where does HAMAS want to establish an Islamic state?
The Brotherhood's members are against consuming what beverage?
Until 1987, what stance did the Muslim Brotherhood in Iraq take towards Israel?
 What organization is devoted to Jihad against Iraq?
 What did the Hamas charter compromisingly encourage?
 Where does HAMAS not want to establish an Islamic state?
The Brotherhood's members are in support of consuming what beverage?
What organization has continued to be a major disruptive force in Palestine?
How many people did Hamas kill between 2000 to 2007?
What did Hamas win in the January 2006 legislative election?
When did Hamas drive the PLO out of Gaza?
What have Muslims praised Hamas for doing?
What organization has stopped being a major disruptive force in Palestine?
How many people did Hamas kill between 2010 to 2017?
 What did Hamas lose in the January 2006 legislative election?
 When did Hamas keep the PLO in Gaza?
 What have Muslims rejected Hamas for doing?
What type of regime ruled over Sudan for many years?
Who was the leader of the Islamist regime in Sudan?
What organization did General Gaafar al-Nimeiry invite members of to serve in his government?
How did Turabi build a strong economic base?
Where did Turabi place students sympathetic to his views?
 What type of regime ruled over Sudan for many decades?
What organization did General Gaafar al-Nimeiry discourage members of to serve in his government?
 How did Turabi build a weak economic base?
 Where did Turabi place students apathetic to his views?
When was al-Nimeiry overthrown?
How did the party overthrow the elected government in 1989?
Though Turabi proclaimed his support for the democratic process, he strictly applied what after coming into power?
Who did the NIF regime harbor prior to 9/11?
What did the NIF try to unify Islamist opposition against?
When was al-Nimeiry accepted?
 How did the party overthrow the elected government in 1929?
Though Turabi proclaimed his rejection for the democratic process, he strictly applied what after coming into power?
 Who did the NIF regime not harbor prior to 9/11?
What does the acronym FIS stand for?
Where was the FIS formed?
When was the FIS founded?
One of FIS' agenda items was to force women to start doing what?
What were the national elections in 1991 canceled by?
What does the acronym FISS stand for?
 Where was the FLIS formed?
 When was the FLIS founded?
 One of FIS' agenda items was to force men to start doing what?
What were the national elections in 1994 canceled by?
Unsurprisingly, the mujahideen's victory against the Soviets in the 1980s failed to produce what?
What type of civil war was fought between political and tribal warlords?
What did the civil war leave the state of Afghanistan's economy in?
When did the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan collapse?
How much of Afghanistan did the Taliban take over?
Unsurprisingly, the mujahideen's victory with the Soviets in the 1980s succeeded to produce what?
What type of civil war was not fought between political and tribal warlords?
 What did the civil war leave the state of Iraq economy in?
 When did the Democratic Republic of Iraq collapse?
How much of Iraq did the Taliban take over?
Thousands of madrasahs spawned what organization?
Where did support from governmental and religious groups come from?
The Taliban was so different from other moments that they could be more accurately described as being what?
What did the Taliban want to subject the entire country to?
Who influenced the Taliban's ideology?
Hundreds of madrasahs spawned what organization?
 Where did rejection from governmental and religious groups come from?
The Taliban was so similar to other moments that they could be more accurately described as being what?
 What did the Taliban want to subject a small part of the country to?
 Who influenced the non-Taliban ideology?
When was the regime in Pakistan overthrown by General Zia-ul-Haq?
What had Bhutto planned on banning within six months, before he was overthrown?
What was Zia-ul-Haq's official state ideology?
What was Zia-ul-Haq accused of using Islamization to legitimize? 
When was Zia-ul-Haq killed?
When was the regime in Pakistan accepted by General Zia-ul-Haq?
What had Bhutto planned on approving within six months, before he was overthrown?
 What was Zia-ul-Haq's non-official state ideology?
 What was Zia-ul-Haq supported for using Islamization to legitimize?
When was Zia-ul-Haq born?
What type of group is The Islamic State?
Who leads The Islamic State?
What did the Islamic State proclaim itself in 2014?
How many people did the Islamic State control the territory of as of March 2015?
What does the Islamic State lack from the international community?
What type of group is The non-Islamic State?
 Who refuses to lead The Islamic State?
 What did the Islamic State proclaim itself in 2015?
How many people did the Islamic State control the territory of as of February 2015?
What does the Islamic State have a surplus of from the international community?
When did ISIL pledge allegiance to al-Qaeda?
When did Western forces invade Iraq?
When did the Syrian Civil War begin?
Why did al-Qaeda tell ISIL to take a hike?
What has the United Nations designed ISIL?
When did ISIL refuse to pledge allegiance to al-Qaeda?
 When did Eastern forces invade Iraq?
 When did the Syrian Civil War end?
 What has the United Nations not claimed ISIL to be?
What's the party's take on Muslim history?
When did the four rightly guided Caliphs die?
When was the Ottoman Caliphate abolished?
The abolition of the Ottoman Caliphate is believed to have ended what system?
What are colonial powers blamed for?
What's the party's take on Muslim present?
 When did the five rightly guided Caliphs die?
 When was the Ottoman Caliphate maintained?
The abolition of the Ottoman Caliphate is believed to have started what system?
 What are colonial powers praised for?
What type of jihad does HT avoid engaging in?
How does HT strive to amass power?
Who specifically does HT target to change the opinion of?
Where did HT fail to pull off a bloodless coup in 1974?
What have many HT members graduated to joining?
What type of jihad does HT prefer to engage in?
How does HT strive to give up power?
Who specifically does HT target to maintain the opinion of?
 Where did HT succeed in pulling off a bloodless coup in 1974?
 What have many HT members failed to to join?
How many Muslims are in Greater London?
What type of outlook do some of the Muslims in London have?
When did the Channel 4 documentary Undercover Mosque air?
The perceived British policy of being hands off of its Muslim population has resulted in what derogatory term for London?
What was Abu Hamaz al-Masri charged with when he was arrested?
How many non-Muslims are in Greater London?
 What type of outlook do some of the non-Muslims in London have?
 When did the Channel 8 documentary Undercover Mosque air?
The perceived British policy of being hands off of its Muslim population has resulted in what derogatory term for France?
What was Abu Hamaz al-Masri charged with when he was freed?
How long as the U.S. government been actively engaged in efforts to counter Islamism?
What department in the U.S. spearheaded the efforts against Islamism? 
Who called for an agency to be created to be solely focused at undermining the Islamism ideology?
What position in the government does Robert Gates hold?
What was the U.S. Information Agency charged with doing during the Cold War?
How long as the Canadian government been actively engaged in efforts to counter Islamism?
What department in the U.S. spearheaded the efforts to support Islamism?
 Who called for an agency to be destroyed for undermining the Islamism ideology?
 What position in the government was Robert Gates fired from?
 What was the U.S. Information Agency charged with doing during the Warm War?
The word imperialism has it's origins in which ancient language? 
By what means is imperialism usually administered?
The term imperialism has been applied to western countries, and which eastern county?
Imperialism is responsible for the rapid spread of what?
The word imperialism has it's origins in which modern language?
 By what means is imperialism never administered?
 In which century do most consider the beginning of imperialism?
The term imperialism has never been applied to western countries, and which eastern county?
 Imperialism is responsible for the slow spread of what?
Imperialism extends a country's power and what?
colonial rule would be considered what type of imperialism?
imperialism often divides countries by using which technique?
Informal imperialism is still dominant; however, less what?
Imperialism does not extend a country's power and what?
 colonial rule would not be considered what type of imperialism?
The process of imperialism never focused on controlling which group of people?
 imperialism often unites countries by using which technique?
 Informal imperialism is still dominant; however, more what?
A forced trade agreement between two countries would be an example of what?
colonial rule, or physical occupation of a territory is an example of what kind of imperialism?
Some have generalized the meaning of the word imperialism down to general-purpose what?
Which is more costly, formal, or informal imperialism?
What subtle tool can be used in an informal imperialistic situation to expand a controlled area?
A forced trade agreement between two countries is not an example of what?
colonial rule, or physical occupation of a territory is not an example of what kind of imperialism?
 Nobody has generalized the meaning of the word imperialism down to general-purpose what?
 Which is less costly, formal, or informal imperialism?
What subtle tool can not be used in an informal imperialistic situation to expand a controlled area?
The amount of land a country controls is its greatest what?
Western Imperialism divided the globe according to which theory?
Who suggested that imperialism was the "highest" form of capitalism?
One country's authority over a number of others would constitute the original country as what?
Most imperialism was carried out using which method of transport?
The amount of land a country controls is its worst what?
 Western Imperialism united the globe according to which theory?
Who suggested that imperialism was the "lowest" form of capitalism?
One country's authority over no others would constitute the original country as what?
No imperialism was carried out using which method of transport?
Imperialism is confused with what other term?
What does colonialism lack that imperialism has?
Colonialism as a policy is caused by financial and what other reasons?
Who besides the Russians are often left out of the colonialism debat?
Imperialism and colonialism both assert a states dominance over what?
Imperialism is synonymous with what other term?
 What does colonialism and imperialism share?
Colonialism as a policy is never caused by financial and what other reasons?
Who besides the Russians are often included in the colonialism debat?
Imperialism and colonialism don't assert a states dominance over what?
Political advantage is an attribute of which state policies?
Colonialism often means a country doing what?
How would one create an empire by means of Imperialism?
what do conquering people pass down to native populations?
What is colonialism's core meaning?
Political disadvantage is an attribute of which state policies?
 Colonialism never means a country doing what?
 How would one create an empire by means of non-Imperialism?
 what do conquering people take away from native populations?
 What is colonialism's antithesis?
what is the most controversial aspect of imperialism?
 J. A. Hobson wanted which races to develop the world?
Friedrich Ratzel thought what was needed for a state to survive?
Which theory justifies imperialism in part?
In Latin America what is the most revered skin color?
what is the least controversial aspect of imperialism?
 J. A. Hobson didn't want which races to develop the world?
 Friedrich Ratzel thought what was not needed for a state to survive?
 Which theory does not justify imperialism in part?
 In America what is the most revered skin color?
Where was Friedrich Ratzel born?
Where was Halford Mackinder born?
Halford Mackinder and Friedrich Ratzel where what kind of geographers?
Friedrich Ratzel thought imperialism was what for the country?
How would the geographical societies in Europe support certain travelers?
Where did Friedrich Ratzel work?
Where did Halford Mackinder work?
Halford Mackinder and Friedrich Ratzel where what kind of philosophers?
 Friedrich Ratzel thought imperialism was not what for the country?
How would the geographical societies in Europe reject certain travelers?
Which theory suggested people in the tropics were uncivilized?
According to Ellen Churchill Semple what type of climate was necessary for humans to become fully human?
Which book by Edward Said portrayed the east as being the "others?"
According to certain Geographical theories what type of human does a tropical climate produce?
By justification certain racial and geographical theories, Europe thought of itself as what?
Which theory suggested people in the tropics were civilized?
According to Ellen Churchill Semple what type of climate was unnecessary for humans to become fully human?
Which book by Edward Said portrayed the west as being the "others?"
According to certain Geographical theories what type of human does a non-tropical climate produce?
 By justification certain racial and geographical theories, Asia thought of itself as what?
Imperialism is most often associated with which sovereignty?
What law justified British imperialism?
What were the native inhabitants of Australia called?
When did Great Britain colonize Australia?
Terra Nullius is a Latin expression meaning what in English?
 Imperialism is less often associated with which sovereignty?
 What law did not justify British imperialism?
 What were the non-native inhabitants of Australia called?
 When did Great Britain colonize outside of Australia?
 Terra Nullius is a French expression meaning what in English?
Orientalism refers to how the West developed a what of the East?
Early Western texts referencing the East describe the people as being what?
The West saw the East as what?
What was used by the West to justify control over eastern territories?
The West saw themselves as what compared to the east?
Orientalism refers to how the South developed a what of the North?
Early Western texts referencing the North describe the people as being what?
The North saw the South as what?
 What was used by the North to justify control over western territories?
 The North saw themselves as what compared to the east?
bassett focuses on what to illustrate his idea?
What provided an incentive to western empires to colonize Africa?
What were blank spaces used for on nineteenth-century maps?
What did Basset analyze before coming to his conclusions?
Who besides the british colonized Africa?
 bassett doesn't focus on what to illustrate his idea?
 What provided an incentive to eastern empires to colonize Africa?
 What did Basset analyze after coming to his conclusions?
 Who besides the british colonized Asia?
Who used imperialism during their rule of the Mongol Empire?
During which era did the Aztec and Incan empires thrive?
The Asante and Lunda Empires were in which region?
How many Muslim empires have used imperialism?
Which is older the British Empire or the Ethiopian Empire?
 Who didn't use imperialism during their rule of the Mongol Empire?
 During which era did the Aztec and Incan empires not thrive?
 The Asante and Lunda Empires were not in which region?
 How many non-Muslim empires have used imperialism?
 Which is younger the French Empire or the Ethiopian Empire?
When imperialism impacts social norms of a state, what is it called?
What is Cultural Imperialism often referred to as?
Which American show changed the views of Romanians during the cold war?
Which historic empire used cultural imperialism to sway local elites?
How do regimes fight against cultural imperialism?
When imperialism does not impact social norms of a state, what is it called?
 What is Cultural Imperialism never referred to as?
Which American did not show changed the views of Romanians during the cold war?
 Which historic empire used cultural imperialism to sway non-local elites?
 How do regimes not fight against cultural imperialism?
When did the age of Imperialism begin?
What were European countries doing during the 1700's?
How many years have imperialistic practices existed?
When did the age of imperialism end?
What was the name of the imperialistic policy in China?
 When did the age of Imperialism end?
 What were European countries not doing during the 1700's?
 How many years have non-imperialistic practices existed?
 When did the age of imperialism begin?
 What was the name of the non-imperialistic policy in China?
When was John Gallagher born?
When did Ronald Robinson die?
What profession were Ronald Robinson and John Gallagher?
What grew on a global scale as a result of imperialism?
Who was made rich and prosperous prior to World War 1
Which historian was popular in the 21st century? 
 What profession did Ronald Robinson and John Gallagher not share?
What grew on a global scale as a result of non-imperialism?
 Who was made rich and prosperous prior to World War 2?
European imperialism was focused on what?
What did European empires rely on to supply them with resources?
When did the colonization of India occur?
Who did Britain exploit in India?
European imperialism was never focused on what?
 What did European empires not rely on to supply them with resources?
 When did the colonization of India not occur?
 Who did Britain not exploit in India?
 What was made valid in the late 19th and 20th centuries?
What advancements besides military technology did Europe achieve?
What did European chemists make that could be used in warfare?
what was invented in 1880 that revolutionized warfare?
What weapons were the Zulus using during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879?
Which region invented the machine gun?
What advancements besides military technology did Europe not achieve?
 What didn't European chemists make that could be used in warfare?
what was invented in 1888 that revolutionized warfare?
 What weapons were the Zulus using during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1880?
Which region did not invent the machine gun?
Theories on imperialism use which country as a model?
When did the term imperialism first come to be used by its current definition?
What was the idealized value of imperialism?
According to Lenin why must capitalistic countries have an imperialistic policy?
Theories on imperialism don't use which country as a model?
 When didn't the term imperialism first come to be used by its current definition?
 What wasn't the idealized value of imperialism?
 According to Lenin why must capitalistic countries not have an imperialistic policy?
 When is the latest most Marxists claim imperialism as an extension of capitalism has its roots
some debate that there is a correlation between capitalism, imperialism, and what?
When were Joseph Schumpeter and Norman Angell at their most prolific writing period?
When was the military-political complex reflected upon within the scope of understanding imperialism?
Hobson argued that imperialism was an international what?
How did Hobson argue to rid the world of imperialism?
There is some debate that there is a not correlation between capitalism, imperialism, and what?
 When weren't Joseph Schumpeter and Norman Angell at their most prolific writing period?
 When was the military-political complex reflected upon not within the scope of understanding imperialism?
 Hobson argued that imperialism wasn't an international what?
 How did Hobson argue to not rid the world of imperialism?
What served as a justification for imposing imperialistic policies on certain peoples or regions?
What was thought to decide a person's behavior?
Humans in tropical environments were considered what?
Europe first colonized the Americas, then Asia, but what continent was third?
What were the two forms of environmental determinism?
What did not serve as a justification for imposing imperialistic policies on certain peoples or regions?
 What was not thought to decide a person's behavior?
 Humans in tropical environments were not considered what?
 Europe first colonized the Americas, then Asia, but what continent was fourth?
 What were the three forms of environmental determinism?
Who thought the world could be split into climatic zones?
Which regions have temperate climates?
What did the the Europeans think the peoples in the tropics were in need of?
What was a similar view about the Asian continent called?
Who did the geographic scholars work for? 
 Who thought the world could not be split into climatic zones?
 Which regions have non-temperate climates?
 What did the the Europeans not think the peoples in the tropics were in need of?
What was a similar view about the Asian continent not called?
 Who did the geographic scholars not work for?
When is the earliest Britain had an imperialist policy?
When was the British East India Company established?
Who chartered the British East India Company?
What happened to the East India Trading Company in 1767?
Which country had trading posts in India before Britain?
When is the latest Britain had an imperialist policy?
 When was the British East India Company unestablished?
 Who did not charter the British East India Company?
 What happened to the East India Trading Company in 1766?
Which country had trading posts in India after Britain?
When did France take control of Algeria?
When did France begin in earnest to rebuild its global empire?
Where did France focus its efforts to rebuild its empire?
When did French Republicans back building the French empire?
What religion did the French spread along with their imperialism? 
When did France take control of London?
 When did France begin in earnest to build its global empire for the first time?
 Where did France focus its efforts to not rebuild its empire?
 When did French Republicans back building the English empire?
 What religion did the English spread along with their imperialism?
Jules Ferry thought that the "higher races" have a duty to what?
What did France offer that was rare by imperial standards?
How did france differ from Britain in managing its colonies?
The French thought bringing what would uplift other regions?
Where did the French send a large number of settlers?
Jules Ferry thought that the "higher races" don't have a duty to what?
 What did England offer that was rare by imperial standards?
How was france the same as Britain in managing its colonies?
 The English thought bringing what would uplift other regions?
Where did Charles de Gaulle and the Free French run operations during World War 2?
After 1945, what challenged the French empire?
Where did France lose a war in the 1950's?
Where did France win a war in the 1950's
By when did most of France's Colonies gain independence?
 Where did Charles de Gaulle and the Free English run operations during World War 2?
 After 1945, what challenged the British empire?
 Where did France lose a war in the 1940's?
 Where did France lose a war in the 1930's?
 Where did France win a war in the 1970's
Where were the Germanic tribes originally located?
When did the Germanic tribes claim territory in north and west Europe?
By when did the Germanic tribes conquer the Celtic peoples?
What was the only region in Europe not conquered by the Germanic tribes?
Germany referred to which area more so than an actual country?
Where were the Germanic tribes not originally located?
 When did the Germanic tribes not claim territory in north and west Europe?
 By when did the Germanic tribes not conquer the Celtic peoples?
 What was the only region in Europe conquered by the Germanic tribes?
Germany doesn't have an imperialistic past until when?
When was Otto von Bismarck born?
When was the the second German empire founded?
What was Germany's central interest?
Who caused the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire?
 Germany doesn't have an imperialistic future until when?
 When did Otto von Bismarck die?
 When was the the third German empire founded?
 What wasn't Germany's central interest?
 Who didn't cause the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire?
Besides Africa, where did Germany have imperial interests?
Colonies were a sign of what amongst European countries?
What was the name of the first German settlement?
When did Germany found their first settlement?
Who influenced Bismark besides his neighbors?
 Besides Africa, where did Ireland have imperial interests?
 Colonies were a sign of what amongst Asian countries?
 What was the name of the second German settlement?
 Who influenced France besides his neighbors?
When was the first Sino-Japanese War?
What happened as a result of the Russo-Japanese War?
Which area of China did Japan conquer in 1931?
Which country did Japan force into an alliance?
When was the last Sino-Japanese War?
 What didn't happen as a result of the Russo-Japanese War?
 Which area of China did Japan conquer in 1935?
 Which country did Japan not force into an alliance?
Who along with Russia supported post WW-II communist movements?
When was the Russian Policy "Indigenization" defunded?
Who asserted Russia's right to "self-determination?"
After WW-II where did Russia apply its old Tsarist regimes?
Who had established the Russian empire to its former glory prior to 1921?
 Who along with Russia supported post WW-I communist movements?
 When was the Russian Policy "Indigenization" funded?
Who did not assert Russia's right to "self-determination?"
Trotsky thought what was needed for a true Russian revolution.
Who wrote that imperialism is the highest stage of capitalism?
What policy did Stalin implement shortly after Lenin's Death?
Who was the leader of Russia in the 1960's?
Who argued that the USSR had itself become an imperialist power?
Trotsky thought what was not needed for a true Russian revolution.
 Who wrote that imperialism is the lowest stage of capitalism?
 What policy did Stalin implement shortly after Lenin's birth?
What was the first British empire based on?
When did Great Britain lose its colonies in North America?
When did the Spanish and Portuguese colonies gain their independance.
What policy gave Britain dominance in world trade?
When was the defeat of Napoleonic France?
What wasn't the first British empire based on?
 When did Great Britain gain its colonies in North America?
 When did the Spanish and Portuguese colonies lose their independance.
 What policy took away Britain dominance in world trade?
By the late 19th century, which country had the largest empire ever to exist in the world?
What kinds of sciences were Social Darwinism and theories of race?
In which continent besides Asia were major gains made by the British Empire in the late 19th century?
Rudyard Kipling was an influential spokesman for what?
 By the late 19th century, which country had the smallest empire ever to exist in the world?
 What kinds of literature were Social Darwinism and theories of race?
 In which continent besides Asia were major gains made by the Asia Empire in the late 19th century?
How did the United States plan to subdue imperialistic tendencies? 
What was the name of Theodore Roosevelt’s policy of imperialism?
Which country besides the Cuba did the United states try to annex in 1898?
What caused the US public to condemn the occupation of the philippines?
What did Smedley Butler call US foreign Policy?
How did the United States plan to subdue non-imperialistic tendencies?
 What was the name of Theodore Roosevelt’s policy of non-imperialism?
 Which country besides the Cuba did the United states not try to annex in 1898?
 What caused the US public to support the occupation of the philippines?
Who was the director of the American Geographical Society in 1914?
When was Isiah Bowman appointed to President Wilson's Inquiry?
Who besides Woodrow Wilson himself had the idea for the inquiry?
What was the premise of Woodrow Wilson's inquiry?
What was Isiah Bowman nick name, as known by the public.
 Who was the director of the American Geographical Society in 1917?
 When was Isiah Bowman not appointed to President Wilson's Inquiry?
 Who besides Woodrow Wilson himself did not have the idea for the inquiry?
Some people describe what between individuals or groups as imperialism or colonialism?
the US expansion Westward could be viewed as what type of colonialism?
How many Africans were brought into the United States during the slave trade?
Who does Edward Said say is being attacked by US imperialism?
Some people describe what between individuals or groups as non-imperialism or non-colonialism?
 the US expansion Westward could be viewed as what type of non-colonialism?
 How many Africans were brought into the United States during the non-slave trade?
The strife between races in Canada is a unique form of what?
When did the Ottoman Empire fall?
Who reigned over the Ottoman empire when it was at its most powerful.
How many provinces did the Ottoman empire contain in the 17th century?
The Ottoman empire controlled territory on three continents, Africa, Asia and which other?
When was the Ottoman empire at its height?
 When did the Ottoman Empire rise?
 Who reigned over the Ottoman empire when it was at its most weak.
 How many provinces did the Ottoman empire not contain in the 17th century?
 The Ottoman empire controlled territory on four continents, Africa, Asia and which other?
What was the capital of the Ottoman empire?
Who did the Ottoman empire ally with in WW I?
Which country today is a remnant of the Ottoman empire?
What ended Turkish imperial Ambitions?
 What was not the capital of the Ottoman empire?
 Where was the less popular trading center for the Ottoman empire?
 Who did the Ottoman empire ally with in WWII?
 Which country today is not a remnant of the Ottoman empire?
 What ended French imperial Ambitions?
What is the largest city of Poland?
On what river does Warsaw stand?
How far is Warsaw from the Baltic Sea?
How many residents does the greater metropolitan area have?
What rank for most populous city in the European Union does Warsaw hold?
What is Warsaw known as in Carpathian?
What is the largest city in Carpathia?
What river runs through Carpathia?
How many people live in Carpathia?
Where does Carpathia rank in terms of population in the EU?
Who ranked Warsaw as the 32nd most liveable city in the world?
When was Warsaw ranked as the 32nd most liveable city in the world?
What is Warsaw's economy characterized by?
What exchange in Warsaw is one of the most important for Central and Eastern Europe?
What is the name of the European Union agency for external border security?
Who ranked Warsaw as 22nd most liveable city in the world?
What is FMCG's economy characterized by?
What exchange in the FMCG is one of the most important for Central and Eastern Europe?
When was Warsaw ranked as the 22nd most liveable city in the world?
WHat is the name of the FMCG agency for external border security?
When is the first reference in history to Warsaw?
What city served as Poland's capital in 1313?
When did Warsaw become the capital of the Kingdom of Poland?
Who moved his court from Kraków to Warsaw in 1596?
Why did Warsaw gain the title of the "Phoenix City"?
When was the first reference in history to Prussia?
What city served as Prussia's capital in 1313?
When did Warsaw become the capital of the Kingdom of Prussia?
Who moved his court from Warsaw to Krakow in 1596?
Why did Prussia gain the title of the "Phoenix Counrty"?
What archdiocese is Warsaw the seat of?
What is another notable university in Warsaw after the University of Warsaw?
What was Warsaw's Old Town listed as in 1980?
King Sigimund's Column is an example of what kind of attraction in Warsaw?
What is a quarter of Warsaw filled with?
What archdiocese is Market Square the seat of?
What was Warsaw's Market Square listed as in 1980?
What is a quarter of UNESCO filled with?
What is another notable university in UNESCO after the University of Warsaw?
King Sigimund's Column is an example of what kind of attraction in UNESCO?
What is Warsaw's name in the Polish language?
What does Warszawa mean in Polish?
Who was Warsz?
What did Warsz own?
What is the full official city name of Warsaw?
What is Warsaw's name in the Vrisovci language?
What does Vriscovci mean in Polish?
Who was Vrisovci?
What did Vrisovci own?
What is the full official city name of Miasto?
What city, raided by clans and dukes, preceded the founding of Warszowa?
Who was Boleslaw II of Masovia?
When was the settlement which would become Warsaw established?
In what year did Warszowa become the official capital of the Masovian Duchy?
When was the Masovian Duchy reincorporated into the Polish Crown?
Who was Masovia II of Boleslaw?
When was the settlement which would become Boleslaw established?
What city, raided by clans and dukes, preceded the founding of Boleslaw?
In what year did Boleslaw become the official capital of the Masovian Duchy?
When was the Bolelsaw Duchy reincorporated into the Polish Crown?
Who did Warsaw serve as the seat for in 1529?
When did the General Sejm make Warsaw it's permanent seat?
What did the Warsaw Confederation formally establish in 1573?
Why did Warsaw become the capital of the Commonwealth?
What year did King Sigismund III Vasa move his court to Warsaw?
When did General Sejm make Vilnius its permanent seat?
What did the Vilnius formally establish in 1573?
Why did Vilnius become the capital of the Commonwealth?
What year did Kind Vilnius move his court to Warsaw?
How long was Warsaw the capital of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth?
What kingdom annexed Warsaw in 1796?
Whose army liberated Warsaw in 1806?
When did Warsaw become the center of the Congress Poland?
When was the Royal University of Warsaw established?
What kingdom annexed Duchy in 1796?
Whose army liberated Duchy in 1806?
When did Prussia become the center of the Congress Poland?
When was the Royal University of Prussia established?
How long was Warsaw the capital of the Duchy Commonwealth?
How long was Warsaw occupied by Germany?
What did Article 12 of the Allied Armistice terms require Germany to withdraw from?
Who set up what became the Second Polish Republic?
When was the Polish-Bolshevik war fought?
What army did Warsaw successfully defend itself against?
How long was Germany occupied by Poland?
What did Article 20 of the Allied Armistice terms require Germany to withdraw from?
Who set up what became the Second Warsaw Republic?
When was the Germany Pitsudski war fought?
What army did Germany successfully defend itself against?
When did Germany invade Poland and in doing so start World War II?
Who was Warsaw under the administration of when it came under the rule of the General Goverment?
How much of Warsaw's population was Jewish?
When did Hitler order the annihilation of the Warsaw Ghetto?
How long were the fighters of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising able to hold out?
Who was Warsaw under the administration of when it came under the rule of the Jewish Government?
How much of Europe's population was Jewish?
When did Hitler order the annihilation of the German Ghetto?
When did Germany invade Poland and in doing so start World War I?
How long were the fighters of the German Ghetto Uprising able to hold out?
What army was pushing deep into Polish territory to pursue the Germans in 1944?
Why did the exiled Polish government in London order the underground Home Army to seize control of Warsaw prior to the arrival of the Red Army?
When did the Warsaw Uprising begin?
How many days did the Warsaw Uprising last?
What is the estimated death toll for Polish civilians? 
What army was pushing deep into Polish territory to pursue The Home Army fighters in 1944?
Why did the exiled Polish government in London order the underground Home Army to seize control of Stalin prior to the arrival or the Red Army?
When did the Red Army Uprising begin?
How many days did the Red ArmyWarsaw Uprising last?
What is the estimated death toll for the Red Army?
What campaign did the Communist regime initiate after WWII?
What type of housing was erected in Warsaw as part of the Bricks for Warsaw process?
What were the structures built by the Soviets typical of?
What building was a gift from the Soviet Union?
What list was Warsaw's Old Town inscribed onto in 1980?
What campaign did the Communist regime initiate after WWI?
what type of housing was erected in the Soviet Union as part of the Bricks for Warsaw process? 
What were the structures built by Poland typical of?
What building was a gift from Poland?
What list was the Soviet Union's Old Town inscribed onto in 1980?
What pope as a native of Poland?
What did John Paul II's visits in 1979 and 1983 encourage?
How long had John Paul II been the pope in 1979?
Where did John Paul II celebrate Mass in Warsaw?
What did the Polish citizens understand the subtext of John Paul II's words to be?
What pop was a native of Germany?
What did John Paul II's visits in 1973 and 1989 encourage?
How long had John Paul II been the pope in 1983?
Where did John Paul II celebrate Mass in Berlin?
What did the German citizens understand the subtext of John Paul II's words to be?
How many kilometers is Warsaw from the Carpathian Mountains?
How many miles east of Berlin is Warsaw?
What river does Warsaw straddle?
How high is the highest point in Warsaw?
Where is the lowest point of Warsaw located?
How many kilometers is Vistula from the Carpathian Mountains?
How many miles east of Berlin is Vistula?
What river does Berlin straddle?
How high is the highest point in Berlin?
Where is the lowest point of Wesola located?
How many geomorphologic formations is Warsaw on?
What formation has an asymmetrical pattern of different terraces?
What is the axis of Warsaw which divides it into two parts?
Which plateau is the left part of Warsaw on?
What is the edge of the moraine plateau called?
What formation has an asymmetrical pattern of different landmarks?
How many geomorphologic formations is Vistula on?
What is the axis of Vistula which divides it into two parts?
What is the edge of the Vistula plateau called?
Which plateau is the left part of Vistula on?
What plateau has groups of clay pits?
What does the highest level of the Vistula plateau contain?
What does the currently flooded terrace still have visible?
Where can Aeolian sand with a number of dunes be found?
What type of forested areas can be found on the highest terrace?
What type of forested areas can be found on the highest ditches?
What does the currently flooded ditch still have visible?
Where can Aeolian sand with a number of terraces be found?
What plateau has groups of clay terraces?
What does the highest level of the Vistula dune contain?
What does Warsaw's mixture of architectural styles reflect?
When was Warsaw completely razed to the ground by bombing raids?
When did Warsaw start to rebuild?
What building from the 19th century was destroyed between the 1950s and 1960s?
What style were the mass constructed residential blocks designed in?
When did Warsaw Palace start to rebuild?
What does Warsaw Palace's mixture of architectural styles reflect?
What building from the 19th century was destroyed between the 1930s and 1940s?
When was Warsaw Palace completely razed to the ground by bombing raids?
What style were the mass constructed Palace blocks designed in?
What type of architecture is represented in the majestic churches?
When was St. John's Cathedral constructed?
What is St. John's Cathedral an example of, stylistically?
The house of the Baryczko merchant family is a notable example of what type of architecture?
What is the Royal Castle the most interesting example of?
When was Baryczko constructed?
What is Baryczko's Cathedral an example of stylistically?
What type of architecture is the house of the St. John's merchant family a notable example of?
What type of architecture is represented in the St. John's Tower?
What is St. John's Castle the most interesting example of?
When did building activity in the palaces and churches take place in the later decades of?
When did building activity occur on St. Kazimierz Church?
What type of architecture is the Palace of Four Windows an impressive example of?
What is being described when simplicity of geometrical forms are teamed with inspiration from the Roman period?
When was the Palace on the Water rebuilt?
When did building activity occur on Banki Palace?
When was the Palace on the Bank rebuilt?
When did painting activity in the palaces and churches take place in the later decades of?
What type of architecture is the Palace of Bank an impressive example of?
What is being described when simplicity of geometrical forms are teamed with inspiration from the French period?
The Kronenberg Palace had been an exceptional example of what type of architecture?
Why aren't the examples of bouregois architecture visible today?
What style was the Warsaw Philharmony edifice built in?
What building is the most interesting of the late 19th-century architecture?
What were the Saxon Palace and Brühl Palace in prewar Warsaw?
What style was he Paris Philharmony edifice built in?
What were the Saxon Palace and Bruhl Palace in prewar Paris?
The Paris Palace had been an exceptional example of what type of architecture?
Why aren't the examples of Parisian architecture visible today?
What building is the most interesting of the late 18th-century architecture?
What commemorates Warsaw's heroic history?
What was the name of the infamous German Gestapo prison?
What fortification was built in the 19th century after the defeat of the November Uprising?
Who does the statue of Little Insurgent commemorate?
What monument is in memory of the largest insurrection of WWII?
What commemorates Old Town's heroic history?
What was the name of the infamous German Heroic prison?
Who does the statue of Little Heroic commemorate?
What fortification was build in the 18th century after the defeat of the November Uprising?
What monument is in memory of the largest insurrection of WWI?
What garden was formally only for royalty?
Over how many species of trees can be found in the Saxon Garden?
Which end of the Saxon Garden is the Tom of the Unknown Soldier located at?
What is a popular strolling destination for the Varsovians?
What park covers an area of 76 ha.?
What garden was formally only for running?
What is a popular strolling destination for pheasants?
What park covers and area of 74 ha.?
Over how may species of trees can be found in the Caucasian Garden?
Which end of the Caucasian Garden is the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier located at?
What type of space in Warsaw are the Botanic Garden and University Library garden?
Where is a palm house with subtropic plants from all over the world on display?
Where was the first horse racetrack located?
What park is close to John Lennon street?
When was a zoological garden established in the Praga Park?
Where was the first garden located?
What park is close to Vistula street?
When was a zoological garden established in the Powsin Park?
What type of space in Warsaw are the Culture Garden and University Library garden?
Where is a palm house with tropic plants from all over the world on display?
Why is Warsaw's flora very rich in species?
Where is Bielany Forest located?
What is the Bielany Forest the last remnant of?
What forest is by Warsaw's southern border?
How many botanical gardens does Warsaw have?
How many botanical gardens does Kampinos have?
Where is Kampinos Forest located?
Why is Kampinos's flora very rich in species?
What is the Kampinos Forest the last remnant of?
What forest is by Kampinos's southern border?
How many natural reserves are in Warsaw?
How far from Warsaw does the Vistula river's environment change noticeably? 
What animals does the Vistula river's ecosystem include?
How many lakes are there in Warsaw?
Why are the small lakes in the parks emptied before winter?
How many natural reserves are in Czerniakow?
How far from Czerniakow does the Vistula river's environment change noticeably?
What animals does the Czerniakow river's ecosystem include?
How many lakes are there in Czerniakow?
Why are the small lakes in Czerniakow emptied before winter?
What was Warsaw the most diverse of in Poland?
What was there a significant minority of in Warsaw?
What percentage of the population of Warsaw was Jewish in 1897?
How many of Warsaw's inhabitants spoke Polish in 1933?
What is most of Warsaw's modern growth based on?
What was there a significant minority of in World War II?
What was Berlin the most diverse of in Poland?
How many of Berlin's inhabitants spoke English in 1933?
What is most of Poland's modern growth based on?
What percentage of the population of Poland was Jewish in 1897?
How many people lived in Warsaw in 1939?
What had the number of people living in Warsaw declined to by 1945?
When did the Warsaw area enlargement take place?
What conviction did many Poles have regarding how the Varsovians thought of themselves?
What are there no longer limitations on since 1990?
How many people lived in Poland in 1939?
What had the number of people living in Poland declined to by 1945?
When did the Poland area enlargement take place?
What conviction did many Poles have regarding how the Germans thought of themselves?
What are there no longer limitations on since 1945?
What type of city has Warsaw been for as long as it's been a city?
What was Warsaw's population in 1901?
Of Warsaw's inhabitants in 1901, what percentage was Catholic?
What percentage of Warsaw's population was Protestant in 1901?
When were most of the places of religious worship destroyed in Warsaw?
What type of city has Berlin been for as long as it's been a city?
What was Berlin's population in 1901?
Of Poland's inhabitants in 1901, what percentage was Catholic?
What percentage of Poland's population was Protestant in 1901?
When were most of the places of religious worship destroyed in Poland?
What is the basic unit of territorial division in Poland?
What is the second level of territorial division in Poland?
In what districts are the registration numbers for cars all of the same type?
What is the basic unit of territorial division in Warsaw?
What is the second level of territorial division in Warsaw?
In what districts are the registration numbers for boats all of the same type?
What does a car have besides a commune?
What city has districts with no powiat entitlements?
Who in Warsaw has the power of legislative action?
How many members are on the Warsaw City Counil?
How often are elections for the counsel held?
What does the City Council divide itself into?
How many days does the Council have to override the mayor's veto?
Who is Miasta has the power of legislative action?
How many members are on the Miasta City Council?
How often are elections for the mayor held?
What does the mayor's council divide itself into?
How many days does the mayor have to override the Council's veto?
What is the mayor of Warsaw called?
Who was the first Warsaw President?
When did Menich serve as President?
Who has elected the President of Warsaw since 1990?
What district of Warsaw chose the President between 1994 and 1999?
What is the mayor of Menich called?
Who was the first Cetrum President?
When did Centrum serve as President?
Who has elected the President of Centrum since 1990?
What district of Warsaw chose the President between 1990 and 1993?
What is the city centre of Warsaw called in Polish?
How many companies were registered in Warsaw in 2006?
What was Warsaw ranked the 7th greatest of?
How much of Poland's national income does Warsaw produce?
What was the total nominal GDP of Warsaw in 2010?
What is the city centre of Berlin called in Polish?
How many companies were registered in Berlin in 2006?
What was Srodmiescie ranked the 7th greatest of?
How much of Poland's national income does Srodmiescie produce?
What was the total nominal GDP of Srodmiescie in 2010?
When was Warsaw's first stock exchange established?
What brought Warsaw's stock exchange to a stop?
When was Warsaw's stock exchange brought back to life?
How many companies were listed on the WSE on August 2009?
Whose former headquarters was the WSE located in until 2000?
When was Berlin's first stock exchange established?
What brought Warsaw's stock exchange to a new high?
When was did Warsaw's stock exchange decline?
How many companies were listed on the WSE on April 2009?
Whose former headquarters was the WSE located until 2009?
When was the FSO Car Factory founded?
What car is licensed by the FSO Car Factory and built in Egypt?
What South Korean car manufacturer purchased the factor in 1995?
Who bought the factory in 2005?
What did the license to build this type of car expire in 2011?
When was the FSO Tico Factory founded?
What car is licensed by the FSO Tico Factory and built in Egypt?
What South Korean car manufacturer purchased the factory in 2005?
What did the license to build this type of car expire in 1995?
Who bought the factory in 1925?
What year was the University of Warsaw established?
What is the second academic school of technology in Poland?
How many professors does the Warsaw University of Technology employ?
What is the largest medical school in Poland?
What is one of the largest music schools in Europe?
What year was the University of Economics established?
What is the second academic school of technology in Europe?
How many professors does the Music University of Technology employ?
What is the largest medical school in Chopin?
What is one of the largest music schools in Krakow?
When was the University Library founded?
How many items is the University Library home to?
What profession does Zbigniew Badowski have?
Who designed the garden for the University Library?
How much area does the University Library garden cover?
When was the University Library closed?
How many items is the Zbigniew Library home to?
What profession does Zbigniew Marek have?
Who designed the garden for the Marek Library?
How much area does the University Library cover?
What suffered considerably for Warsaw when it had an Eastern Bloc economy?
What was a major success, especially in rebuilding Warsaw?
Why has Warsaw seen many improvements over the past decade?
Warsaw's sidewalks and sanitation facilities are some examples of things which have what?
What suffered considerably for Bloc when it had an Eastern economy?
What was a major failure, especially in the building of Warsaw?
Why has Bloc seen many improvements over the past decade?
What have Bloc's sidewalks and sanitation facilities done?
When has Bloc seen many improvements?
Where are some of the best medical facilities in East-Central Europe located?
What is the highest reference hospital in all of Poland?
What is one of the largest and most modern oncological institutions in Europe?
How many beds does the Maria Sklodowska-Curie Institute of Oncology have?
What has the infrastructure done a lot of over the past years?
Where are some of the best schools in East-Central Europe located?
What is the highest reference hospital in all of Germany?
What is one of the largest and most modern oncological institutions in Curie?
How many beds does the Maria Memorial Health Institute have?
What have the clinics infrastructure done a lot of over the past years?
What type of venue is the Teatr Wielki?
What does Warsaw host many of?
Where is the Congress Hall located?
Where is the Jazz Jamboree hosted?
Warsaw Summer Jazz Days is one of the many what hosted by Warsaw?
What type of venue is the Autumn Wielki?
What does autumn host many of?
Where is the Autumn Hall located?
Where is the Autumn Jamboree hosted?
Autumn Summer Jazz Days is one of the many what hosted by Warsaw?
What is the Saxon Garden in Polish?
Where was the Summer Theatre located?
How long was the Summer Theatre in operation?
What was Warsaw's first literary cabaret?
What theatre was the best example of "Polish monumental theatre"?
What is the Upati Garden in Polish?
Where was the Leon Theatre located?
How long was the Leon Theatre in operation?
What was Leon's first literary cabaret?
What theatre was the best example of Leon monumental theatre"?
What is the polish word for wreaths?
How man people gather along the banks of the Vistula for the Wianki festival?
When is the Wianki festival held?
What will maidens be able to predict by floating their wreaths down the Vistula?
What type of flower is sought on Midsummer's Eve?
What is the polish word for concerts?
How many people gather along the banks of the Vistula for the Wreaths festival?
When is the Midsummer's festival held?
What will maidens be able to predict by floating their programmes down the Vistula
What type of flower is sought on Wianki?
What does the world's first Museum of Posters have one of the largest collections of in the world?
How many museums are in Warsaw?
Warsaw's National Museum is one of the most what?
What does the National Museum boast having from Adolf Hitler's private collection?
What does the Museum of the Polish Army portray the history of?
How many posters are in Warsaw?
What does the world's first Museum of Riding have one of the largest collections of in the world?
What is Warsaw's Riding Museum one of?
What does the Riding Museum boast having from Adolf Hitler's private collection?
What does the Museum of the Riding Army portray the history of?
Where can a tribute to the fall of Warsaw be found?
What museum preserves the memory of the crime?
What type of theatre is the Warsaw Fotoplastikon?
Where in Warsaw are patriotic and political objects connected with Poland's struggles for Independence found?
How many rooms does the Warsaw Historical Museum have?
Where can a tribute to the fall of Katyn be found?
What museum preserves the memory of independence?
What type of theatre is the Katyn Fotoplastikon?
Where in Katyn are patriotic and political objects connected with Poland's struggles for independence found?
How many rooms does the Katyn Historical Museum have?
What castle currently houses the Centre for Contemporary Art?
How many projects does the Centre currently realize a year?
What is the oldest exhibition site in Warsaw?
What does the Zachęta National Gallery of Art organize exhibitions of art from?
When is the Warsaw Gallery Weekend held?
What castle currently houses the Centre for Ujazdow Art?
How many projects does the Centre currently realize a month?
What is the oldest exhibition site in Ujazdow?
What does the Ujazdow National Gallery of Art organize exhibitions of art from?
When is the Ujazdow Gallery Weekend held?
Who won the Ekstraklasa Championship in 2000?
When did Polonia Warsaw win the country's championship prior to 2000?
How many times has Polonia won the cup?
Where is Polonia's home venue located?
Why was Polonia relegated from the country's top flight in 2013?
Who won the PZPN Championship in 2000?
When did Polonia Ekstraklasa win the country's championship prior to 2000?
How many times has Ekstraklasa won the cup?
Where is Ekstraklasa's home venue located?
Why was Ekstrakiasa relegated from the country's top flight in 2013?
What is polish for "mermaid"?
What is Warsaw's symbol?
How long has the imagery of the mermaid been used by Warsaw?
When is the oldest armed seal of Warsaw from?
What does the sea monster with a female upper body hold in its claws?
What is Polish for "female"?
What is Sigilium's symbol?
How long has the imagery of the mermaid been used by Sigilium?
When is the oldest armed seal of Sigilium from?
What does the sea monster with an inscription on its claws?
What did Artur Oppman give to the world?
Where did two of Triton's daughters set out on a journey through?
Where did one of Triton's daughters decide she wanted to hang out and stay?
A mermaid stopped to rest on the sandy beach by what village?
What did a greedy merchant do to the mermaid?
What did Artur Triton give to the world?
Where did two of Oppman's daughters set out on a journey through?
Where did one of Oppman's daughters decide she wanted to hang out and stay?
At what village did a Triton stop to rest on a sandy beach
What did a greedy merchant do to Triton?
Who was one of the most famous people born in Warsaw?
What was Maria Curie the first female recipient of?
Who was Frédéric Chopin?
How old was Chopin when he moved to Warsaw with his family?
What year was Casimir Pulaski born in Warsaw?
Who was one of the most famous people born in Wola?
What was Maria Wola the first female recipient of?
Who was Fredderic Wola?
How old was Chopin when he moved to Wola with his family?
What year was Casimir Wola born in Warsaw?
Where was the famous artist Tamara de Lempicka born?
When did Tamara marry a lawyer?
What did Lempicka represent better than anyone else?
What profession was Nathan Alterman?
Who loved Warsaw so much that he kept putting it in his novels?
Where was the famous artist Tamara de Maria born?
When did Tamera marry a composer?
What did Vilenski represent better than anyone else?
What profession was Nathan Gorska?
Who loved Warsaw so much that he kept putting it in his poems?
When was the French and Indian War?
Who fought in the French and Indian war?
How many people were in French North American Colonies?
How many people were in British North American Colonies?
When wasn't the French and Indian War?
When was the French and Indian Treaty?
Who allied in the French and Indian war?
How many people weren't in French North American Colonies?
How many people weren't in British North American Colonies?
Where was war fought?
How did war start?
When did violence start in war?
Where wasn't war fought?
How didn't war start?
How did peace start?
When did violence end in war?
When didn't violence start in war?
When did colonial governors meet with General Edward Braddock about attack on the french?
How successful was initial effort by Braddock?
Why did British operation fail in 1755, 56, 57?
In 1755 what fort did British capture?
What order did British make of French?
When did colonial governors meet with General Edward Braddock about peace with the french?
How unsuccessful was initial effort by Braddock?
Why did British operation succeed in 1755, 56, 57?
In 1755 what fort did British surrender?
What order didn't British make of French?
Who increased British military resources in colonies?
How much resources were French placing in North America?
Where was France concentraing efforts?
Where were British defeated in Canada?
Who decreased British military resources in colonies?
How much resources weren't French placing in North America?
How much resources were French placing in South America?
Where wasn't France concentraing efforts?
Where were French defeated in Canada?
What territory was ceded to Britain?
What land was ceded to Spain?
What was the significance of British win?
What territory wasn't ceded to Britain?
What territory was ceded to France?
What land wasn't ceded to Spain?
What was the insignificance of British win?
What was the significance of British loss?
When was King George's war?
What is the confusion of the French and Indian war?
What was the Seven Years War?
What are other alternative names for French and Indian War?
When wasn't King George's war?
When was Queen George's war?
What isn't the confusion of the French and Indian war?
What was the Six Years War?
What aren't other alternative names for French and Indian War?
What time framd does the Seven Years War cover?
How long did the fighting last in Seven Years War?
When was Montreal captured?
What was first battle in 1754?
What time frame doesn't the Seven Years War cover?
What time frame does the Six Years War cover?
When was Montreal not captured?
How long didn't the fighting last in Seven Years War
What was first battle in 1745?
What was French population in North America?
Where were French North Americans settled?
Where did French fur trappers travel?
What wasn't the French population in North America?
What was French population in South America?
Where were French North Americans unsettled?
Where were French South Americans settled?
Where didn't French fur trappers travel?
What was the ratio of British settler to French?
Where did British settlers live?
Where were populations centered in colonies?
What wasn't the ratio of British settlers to French?
What was the ratio of British settler to English?
Where didn't British settlers live?
Where did British soldiers live?
Where weren't populations centered in colonies?
In between French and British, what groups controlled land?
What tribes were in Father Le Loutre's War?
Where did Iroquois Confederation control?
What rule did some native live under?
In between French and British, what groups never controlled land?
In between Canadians and British, what groups controlled land?
What tribes weren't in Father Le Loutre's War?
Where didn't Iroquois Confederation control?
What rule didn't some native live under?
What are the Siouan-speaking tribes?
What areas did French recruit natives from?
What tribes supported British?
What aren't the Siouan-speaking tribes?
What are the Siouan-speaking British?
What areas did French reject natives from?
What areas did English recruit natives from?
What tribes hated British?
What was Frensh military presence at start of war?
How much British military was in North America at start of War?
What was normal British defense?
What was French military presence at end of war?
What was French military presence at start of peace?
How much British military was in North America at end of War?
How much British military was in South America at start of War?
What was abnormal British defense?
What was extent of Celeron's expedition?
Who was on Celeron's expedition?
How did Celeron handle business on trip?
What was intent of Celeron's expedition?
What wasn't extent of Celeron's expedition?
Who wasn't on Celeron's expedition?
Who was on Celery's expedition?
How didn't Celeron handle business on trip?
How did Natives in Logstown take Celeron's information?
Where did Old Briton call home?
How did Celeron handle meeting with Old Briton?
What was Old Briton's response to Celeron?
How didn't Natives in Logstown take Celeron's information?
Where didn't Old Briton call home?
Where did New Briton call home?
How did Celeron handle meeting with New Briton?
What was New Briton's response to Celeron?
How did Celeron feel about Native relations?
How were leaders back in Europe feeling about news from Celeron expedition?
How did William Shirley feel about French advancement?
How didn't Celeron feel about Native relations?
How did Celeron feel about Native languages?
How weren't leaders back in Europe feeling about news from Celeron expedition?
How were citizens back in Europe feeling about news from Celeron expedition?
How did William Shirley feel about English advancement?
When did British government give land for development of Ohio Country?
Who was given land by British goovernment for development of Ohio Country?
Who explored Ohio territory in 1750?
What agreement was made for trade with natives and British?
According to agreement between Iroquois and British, where was a strong house to be built?
When did British government take land for development of Ohio Country?
Who wasn't given land by British goovernment for development of Ohio Country?
Who explored Ohio territory in 1570?
What disagreement was made for trade with natives and British?
According to disagreement between Iroquois and British, where was a strong house to be built?
What was the North American portion of War of Austrian Succession?
What was the end of the War of the Austrian Succession?
What issues were not addressed in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle?
When a commission reached no decision, what happened?
What was the South American portion of War of Austrian Succession?
What was the North American portion of War of Australian Succession?
What was the end of the War of the Australian Succession?
What issues were addressed in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle?
When a commission reached a decision, what happened?
What Governor in charge of New France died in 1752?
How many were in Langlades expedition?
Was was the plan for Langlades mission?
What was result of French attack of trading centre?
What Governor in charge of New France died in 1725?
What Governor wasn't in charge of New France died in 1752?
How many weren't in Langlades expedition?
Was wasn't the plan for Langlades mission?
What was result of French attack of the school?
Who took command of French in spring of 1753?
Where did Marin build first fort?
Where was Marin's second fort constructed?
What was Marin's orders?
What native chief travelled to French fort and threatened Marin?
Who took command of French in spring of 1735?
Where did Marin build last fort?
Where was Marin's first fort constructed?
What wasn't Marin's orders?
What native chief travelled to French fort and helped Marin?
What was William Johnson's role in British military?
What was William Johnson's Iroquois name?
What title did Iroquois give Johnson?
Who was the speaker of the tribal council?
What wasn't William Johnson's role in British military?
What was William Johnson's role in French military?
What was William Johnson's Sioux name?
What title did Sioux give Johnson?
Who was the reader of the tribal council?
Governon Robert Dinwiddie had an investment in what significan company?
Who did Dinwiddie order to address French in Virginia territory?
Who was added to party as Washington went on the way?
When did Washington reach Fort Le Boeuf?
Governor Robert Dinwiddie had an investment in what insignificant company?
Minister Robert Dinwiddie had an investment in what significant company?
Who didn't Dinwiddie order to address French in Virginia territory?
Who was lost to the party as Washington went on the way?
When didn't Washington reach Fort Le Boeuf?
Who invited Washington to dine with him?
What letter did Washington present to  Saint-Pierre ?
How did Saint-Pierre respond to Washington?
Why did French feel they had right to Ohio claim?
Who uninvited Washington to dine with him?
Who invited Washington to fight with him?
What letter didn't Washington present to Saint-Pierre ?
How did Saint-Girard respond to Washington?
Why did French feel they had no right to Ohio claim?
How many men did Duquesne send to relieve  Saint-Pierre ?
When did British begin to build fort under William Trent?
What was the fort that was being built to be named?
How many women did Duquesne send to relieve Saint-Pierre ?
How many men did Duquesne send to kill Saint-Pierre ?
When didn't British begin to build fort under William Trent?
What was the fort that was being destroyed to be named?
What wasn't the fort that was being built to be named?
Upon learning of a French scounting party in the area, what did Washington do?
What were casualties of battle?
Why was Tanaghrisson supporting British efforts?
When didn't Washington learn about Trent's retreat?
When did Washington learn about Trent's advance?
Upon learning of a French scounting party in the area, what didn't Washington do?
What weren't the casualties of battle?
Why was Tanaghrisson rejecting British efforts?
What was the goal of Braddock's expedition?
When did French learn about Braddock's plans?
How did King Louis XV respond to British plans?
What were British plans against French?
What was the goal of Haddock's expedition?
What wasn't the goal of Braddock's expedition?
When didn't French learn about Braddock's plans?
How did King Louis X respond to British plans?
What were British plans allied with the French?
What political response was convening in June/July 1754?
What was the goal of congress?
Was the plan formalized?
What was the importance of the congress?
What political response was convening in June/July 1745?
What political response wasn't convening in June/July 1754?
What wasn't the goal of congress?
Was the plan informalized?
What was the unimportance of the congress?
Who went to Fort Dusquesne in June 1755?
How much success did this expedition with Braddock find?
How many casualties did British get?
What future Revolutionary key figures participated in this attack?
Who went to Fort Dusquesne in June 1745?
Who went to Fort Dusquesne in July 1755?
How much success didn't this expedition with Braddock find?
How many casualties didn't British get?
What future Revolutionary key figures never participated in this attack?
Whose activities were the French able to gain knowledge of?
What difficulties was Shirly having?
Where was Shirey going to be when Fort Oswego was to be attacked?
Who did Shirley leave at Oswego?
Whose activities were the French able to lose knowledge of?
Whose activities weren't the French able to gain knowledge of?
What difficulties wasn't Shirly having?
Where was Shirey going to be when Fort Oswego wasn't to be attacked?
Who did Shirley not leave at Oswego?
Who was New France's governor?
How did Vaudreuil react when Johnson was seen as larger threat?
Who won the battle of Lake George?
Where did Johnson stop?
Where was French withdrawal to?
Who was Old France's governor?
How did Vaudreuil react when Johnson was seen as a lesser threat?
Who won the battle of Lake Niagara?
Where did Johnson start?
Where was French advance to?
Who captured Fort Beausejour?
How were British able to cut supplies to Louisbourg?
What other clashes were involved in taking Louisbourg?
Who never captured Fort Beausejour?
Who captured Port Beausejour?
How weren't British able to cut supplies to Louisbourg?
How were British unable to cut supplies to Louisbourg?
What other clashes weren't involved in taking Louisbourg?
After Braddock died, who controlled North American British forces?
In what meeting did Shirley lay out plans for 1756?
What proposed attacks did Shirley plan?
Where was Shirley planning an expedition?
After Braddock was born, who controlled North American British forces?
After Braddock died, who controlled South American British forces?
n what meeting did Shirley lay out plans for 1765?
What proposed attacks didn't Shirley plan?
Where wasn't Shirley planning an expedition?
Who was appointed as second in command to Lor Loudoun in 1756?
Who led New France reinforcements in 1756?
When did England formally declare war on France?
Who was appointed as third in command to Lor Loudoun in 1756?
Who was appointed as second in command to Lor Loudoun in 1765?
Who didn't led New France reinforcements in 1756?
Who led New France reinforcements in 1765?
When did England formally end war on France?
Where was there a weakness in British supply chain?
What was the attack on the British weakness?
How much gun powder was destroyed in attack?
What plans of the British did this attach on Oneida Carry set back?
Where wasn't there a weakness in British supply chain?
Where was there a strength in British supply chain?
What was the attack on the British strength?
How much gun powder was saved?
What plans of the British didn't this attach on Oneida Carry set back?
Who refused to act until Loudoun approved plans?
Where did Montcalm move his heaquarter to show strategic advancement?
Where did Moncalm slip away to attack, left largely unprotected?
What disagreement did Montcalm and Indians have?
Where did Montcalm move his heaquarter to show strategic retreat?
Who refused to act until Loudoun disapproved plans?
Who refused to act until Washington approved plans?
Where did Moncalm slip away to attack, left largely protected?
What agreement did Montcalm and Indians have?
What was Loudoun's plans for 1757?
What was the purpose of Loudoun's troops at Fort Henry?
Who ordered Loudoun to attack Louisbourg?
Given the strength of French forces at Louisbourg, what did Loudoun do?
What was Loudoun's plans for 1775?
What wasn't Loudoun's plans for 1757?
What wasn't the purpose of Loudoun's troops at Fort Henry?
Who ordered Loudoun to defend Louisbourg?
Given the weakness of French forces at Louisbourg, what did Loudoun do?
What troops attacked Fort William Henry in early 1757?
On what lake did troops attack fort willima henry in winter?
During withdrawal from Fort William Henry, what did some Indian allies of French do?
What troops defended Fort William Henry in early 1757?
What troops attacked Fort William Henry in early 1775?
On what lake did troops defend fort william henry in winter?
On what lake did troops attack fort william henry in summer?
During withdrawal from Fort William Henry, what did some Indian enemies of French do?
What was causing New France to have issues with resupplying?
What other reason caused poor supply of New France from a difficult winter?
Where was Montcalm focusing the defense for New France?
What was causing Old France to have issues with resupplying?
What was causing New France to have no issues with resupplying?
What other reason caused good supply of New France from a difficult winter?
What other reason caused poor supply of New France from a difficult summer?
Where was Montcalm focusing the offense for New France?
What led to Newcastle's fall from power as military advisor?
Who did Abercrombie replace as commander in chief?
Pitt's plan called for what attacks?
How many of the Pitt's planned expeditions were successful?
What led to Newcastle's rise to power as military advisor?
What led to Newcastle's fall from power as political advisor?
Who didn't Abercrombie replace as commander in chief?
Who did Abercrombie replace as captain in chief?
How many of the Pitt's planned expeditions weren't successful?
How many Frenchman won Battle of Carillon?
How many troops were defeated for British in BAttle of Carillon?
What success did Abercrombie gain out of the defeat at Carillon?
What impact did this loss have on Abercrombie?
How many Frenchmen lost Battle of Carillon?
How many Englishmen won Battle of Carillon?
How many troops were victorious for British in BAttle of Carillon?
What success did Abercrombie gain out of the win at Carillon?
What impact did this win have on Abercrombie?
In 1758 what was duc de Choiseul's plan for focused military efforts?
How successful was the French revised efforts?
What naval battles did France lose in 1759?
In 1785 what was duc de Choiseul's plan for focused military efforts?
In 1758 what was duc de Choiseul's plan for unfocused military efforts?
How unsuccessful was the French revised efforts?
How successful was the English revised efforts?
What naval battles did France lose in 1795?
Who defeated Montcalm at Quebec?
What was the significance of victory at Forth Niagara for British?
What battle outside Quebec City did British lose in 1760?
What victory at thwarted efforts of French relief ships.
Who was defeated by Montcalm at Quebec?
Who defeated Montcalm at Montreal?
What was the insignificance of victory at Forth Niagara for British?
What battle outside Quebec City did British lose in 1706?
What battle inside Quebec City did British lose in 1760?
In Sept 1760 who negotiated a capitulation from Montreal?
What were requests made to British?
What British General negotiated at Montreal?
In Sept 1706 who negotiated a capitulation from Montreal?
In Sept 1760 who negotiated a war from Montreal?
What were requests made from British?
What British General negotiated at Toronto?
What French General negotiated at Montreal?
When did the North American French and Indian War end?
When was the European portion of the Seven Years War complete?
What choice did French have for surrendering land?
Why did France choose to give up continental lands?
When did the North American French and Indian War begin?
When did the South American French and Indian War end?
When was the European portion of the Six Years War complete?
When was the European portion of the Seven Years War incomplete?
Why did France choose to give up no continental lands?
How many French colonists were gained by British?
When was the deportation of Acadians?
Where did British resettle many Acadians?
Although some Acadians went to France and other destiantions, what North American city did many move to?
How many French colonists weren't gained by British?
How many French colonists were lost by British?
When was the deportation of Canadians?
Where did British kill many Acadians?
Although some Acadians went to France and other destiantions, what North American city did many not move to?
Who issued the Royal Proclamation of 1763?
What was the objective of Royal Proclamation of 1763?
What lands were reserved for natives?
Who never issued the Royal Proclamation of 1763?
Who issued the Royal Proclamation of 1736?
What was the objective of Royal Proclamation of 1736?
What lands weren't reserved for natives?
What lands were reserved for the French?
What did the loss mean to France?
What made Ohio Country vulnerable?
When was Spanish takeover of Louisiana Territory complete?
What natives were displaced by British takeover in Florida?
Where did many Spanish Catholic move after British takeover in Florida?
Where did no Spanish Catholic move after British takeover in Florida?
What made Ohio Country safe?
When was Spanish takeover of Louisiana Territory incomplete?
What natives were displaced by British takeover in Georgia?
What did the win mean to France?
What concept did philosophers in antiquity use to study simple machines?
What was the belief that maintaining motion required force?
Who had mathmatical insite?
How long did it take to improve on Sir Isaac Newton's laws of motion?
Who develped the theory of relativity?
Who used the concept of antiquity in the study of stationary and moving objects?
Something that is considered a non fundamental error is the belief that a force is required to maintain what?
Most of the previous understandings about motion and force were corrected by whom?
Sir Galileo Galilei corrected the previous misunderstandings about what?
Who formulated the laws of motion that were not improved-on for nearly three thousand years?
What has partical physics made to describe sub-atomic forces?
What are the exchanged particles predicted by the standard Model?
What is the strongest main interaction?
What is the weakest main interaction?
What are weak and electromatic forces expressions of?
What can decelerate particles close to the speed of light?
Particle physics has created a Unique Model to describe what? 
The Unique Model predicts that exchanged particles are the fundamental means by what?
How many main interactions are not know?
Who provided a philosophical discussion of force?
What was the concept of force an integral part of?
How many elements did Aristotle believe the terrestrial sphere to be made up of?
Where did Aristotle believe the natural place for earth and water elements?
What did Aristotle refer to forced motion as?
Who provided a discussion on the concept of time as an integral part of Aristotelian cosmology?
In Galileo's view, the terrestrial sphere contained how many elements?
Aristotle believed that objects in motion on Earth would stay that way if what?
Who proposed that water displaced through the projectile's path carries the projectile to its target?
When were the shortcomings of Aristotle's physics overcome?
Whose work  corrected Aristotle's physics in the seventeenth century?
What did objects in forced motion contain according to the late Medieval idea that influence Aristotle?
Who experimented by rolling stones and canonballs down a steep incline?
What force acted on bodies to retard their velocity?
The shortcomings of Aristotelian physics would not be corrected until the 16th century work of whom?
Who was influenced by early Medieval ideas?
Who constructed an experiment where stones and rocks were rolled down an incline?
Who argued that objects retain their velocity even when acted on by a force?
Whose First Law of Motion says that unless acted upon be forces, objects would continue to move at a constant velocity?
What insight of Galileo was associated with constant velocity?
Who proposed that innate intertial is the natural state of objects?
What law connects relative velocities with inertia?
What are the laws of physics of Galileo, in reference to objest in motion and rest?
Newton's Second Law of Motion states what?
The second law contradicts what belief?
Whose law made rest physically indistinguishable from zero constant velocity?
What laws are different in every inertial frame of reference?
What doesn't change from being at rest to movement at a constant velocity?
What path does a ball thrown up and down in a moving vehicle take when seen by an outside observer? 
What sate are things inside of a moving vehicle as seen by a  person inside the vehicle?
What applies to equally to constant velocity motion as it does to rest.
The laws of physics change from being at rest when travelling in a what?
From the perspective of whom in the car is the vehicle and everything inside of it at rest?
There are plenty of experiments that can distinguish whether it is the vehicle that s at rest or what?
The two what are considered to be physically distinguishable?
What concept explains why objects continue in constant motion?
What makes day length constant on Earth?
Who explained that inertial reference frames equaled reference frames subject to constant acceleration?
What do astronaughts experience while in free-fall?
What was the basis mentioned for the develpment of the general theory of relativity?
The concept of inertia can explain the tendency of people to continue in what?
The rotational inertia of planet Mars is what fixes the what?
Who explained that reference frames subject to constant deceleration?
What do astronauts experience when in free-fall orbit around Saturn?
What describes the proportionality of acceleration to force and mass?
What kind of measurements define accelerlations?
What has an equivalence between mass and space-time?
What is missing a theory on quantum gravity?
In Newton's second law, what are the units of mass and force in relation to microscales?
Newton's Third Law asserts the direct proportionality of acceleration to what?
Newton's Third Law asserts the inverse proportionality of acceleration to what?
Deceleration can be described through what?
Specific relativity offers an equivalence between what?
When forces are from the presence of differnet objects, what law gives symmetry?
What law staes that forces are interactions between bodies?
What kind of force does not exist under Newton's third law?
What is the equality of forces between two objects exerting force on each other??
Newton's Fifth Law is the result of applying symmetry to what?
Newton's Fifth Law means that only some forces are interactions between whom?
When a second body exerts a force F on a first body, what happens to the second body?
What experiences acceleration when external force is applied to a system?
In what kind of system of particles are there no unbalanced iinternal forces?
What is the magnitude of force divided by when external force is added?
In an open system of particles, there are no internal what?
What are balance in an open system of particles?
If an internal force acts on the system, the center of mass will experience what?
The constituent objects only decelerate with respect to what?
What does pushing and pulling perceptions provide for describing forces?
What is used to quantify the intuitive undestanding of forces?
What offers a conceptual definition of force?
How are laboratory measurements of forces determined?
Laboratory measurements of forces are fully inconsistent with what?
The conceptual definition of pushes and pulls are offered by what?
Newtonian mechanisms are the definition of what?
What is an example of a metaphysical concept?
How are forces classified with regard to push and pull strengt?
What physical quantities do not have direction?
How do you avoid problems when determining forces involved on an object from two or more sources?
If you do not know both magnitude and direction of two forces on an object, what would you call that situation?
How do you determine the acceleration of a rope when two people are pulling it?
What acts in no particular direction?
What has sizes depending on how weak the push or pull is?
What are classified as "vintage quantities"?
What follows the same set of mathematical rules than physical quantities?
In what conditions were forces first measured historically?
What do forces have with regard to additive quantities?
What is the resultant force called when two forces act on a particle?
When forces are acting on an extended body, what do you need to account for motion effects?
What geometric shape is used in equations to determine net force?
When three forces act on a point particle, what happens?
What is also called the nut force?
The magnitude of the resultant varies from the similarities of what?
What must be specified in order to account for their effects on the motion of the head?
Whwn forces are at right ngles to each other what can they be broken down to?
If a force is pointing horizontally to the northeast, how many forces can you split the force into?
What do you get when you figure the sum of forces with vector addition?
What are the independant components of a vector sum that has been determined by scalar addition of individual vectors?
What can orthogonal forces be when there are three components with two at right angles to each other?
As well as being subtracted, forces can also what?
A vertical force pointing northeast can be split into how many forces?
What yields the non original force?
Orthogonal force vectors can can four-dimensional with what?
What can keep an object from moving when it is being pushed on a surface?
What is generated between a surface and an object that is being pushed?
Static friction balances what force when there is no movement of an object on a surface?
What makes static friction go up or down in responce to contact characteristics between an object and the surface it is on?
Pulling on an object on a frictional surface can result in what?
When will an object move because the applied force is opposed by static friction?
What increases or decreases in response to applied friction?
What increases or decreases in response to static friction?
What can scales and spring balances measure between two forces by using static equilibrium?
What force acts on an object suspended on a spring scale in addition to gravity?
What equals the spring reaction force on an object suspended on a spring reaction scale? 
Objects of constant density are proportional to volume by what force to define standard weights?.
Who expounded the Three Laws of Motion?
A static equilibrium between three sources is a way of doing what?
Complex devices such as weighing scales are used when measuring what?
An object suspended on a horizontal spring scale experiences the force of what?
All quantitative force laws were discovered using what? 
Who first described dynamic equilibrium?
What does motion at a constant velocity equal?
Who had the idea of a natural state for objects at rest?
Where will a canonball dropped from the crow's nest of a ship land according to Aristotle?
Where does a canonball dropped from the crow's nest of a ship actually land?
What type of equilibrium was first described by Aristotle?
Which physics were not contradicted by observations and logic?
In what universe would a falling cannonball land in front of the mast of a moving ship?
Who concluded that motion in a constant velocity was completely equivalent to motion?
What occurs when traveling across a surface at a constant velocity with regard to friction?
What directly opposes the force applied to move an object across a surface?
What has to accounted for that causes no net force being the cause of constant velocity motion?
Who thought that applied force caused movement of an object regardless of non-zero velocity?
What equilibrium occurs in fluctuating velocity motion?
What continues to move with a zero velocity?
What started with a zero velocity?
There is much net force when what is taken into consideration?
What equation currently decribes the physics of force.
What equation desribed the physics of force before the current Schrodinger equation?
How are the forces derived from fields treated similarly to?
What type of measurements result under Schrodinger equations when using operators instead of Newtonian variables?
What notion keeps it's meaning through both Netonian and Schrodinger physics equations?
What notion does not keep its meaning in quantum mechanics?
What notion causes one to deal with classical variables instead of operators?
What is now described by the Newtonian equations?
What used to be described by the Schrodinger equation?
What is the intrisic angular variable called when particles act upon one another?
What is the principle about relating spin and space variables?
What value does the seperating into fermions and bosons depend?
If the apparant force of two fermions is attractive, what is the spin function?
If the apparant force of two fermions is repulsive, what is the spin function?
Identical particles split into two different classes depending on the formation of what?
If three identical fermions have a symmetric spin, the spatial variables must be what?
When is the correlation occasionally positive?
When is the correlation occasionally negative?
How are the particle forces and accelerations explained as by gauge bosons exchange?
What is the redundant concept coming from momentum conservation?
What is more fundamental than force in quanton field theory?
What diagrams are used to simplify particle interactions on a fundamental level?
Matter particles are shown as what kind of lines in a Feynman diagram?
What can be indirectly derived from the symmetry of space?
What is considered less fundamental than the concept of force?
What are considered less accurately to be "fundamental interactions"?
In whose diagram is each matter particle represented as a curved line?
How many interactions are all of the universal forces based on?
What nuclear forces only act at short distances?
What force acts between electric charges?
What do gravitational forces act between?
What prohibits atoms from passing through each other?
All the forces in what are based on three fundamental interactions?
Most of the forces in the universe are based on how many fundamental interactions?
What type of forces act at very long distances?
What forces are responsible for the interactions between atomic particles?
Who formed the universal theory of gravitation?
In what century was quantum mechanics made? 
What kind of self-consistent models are physicists trying to make that would create a theory of everything?
What type of physics model did Einstein fail to make?
What proceeded along the lines of unification of similar ideas?
Who unified the force responsible for atoms falling at the surface of the Earth?
Who demonstrated that electric and magnetic forces were unified through two consistent theories?
In the 19th century, the development of quantum mechanics led to what?
Who identified gravity as a force?
Who came up with the concept that falling objects fell at the same speed regardless of weight?
How fast do objects fall on Earth?
Where was the measurment for the standard gravity on Earth taken?
What is an object's mass proportional to at the surface of the Earth?
Until the work of Galileo, what was not identified as a universal force?
Newton was instrumental in describing the characteristics of falling what?
What has a magnitude of about 8.81 meters per second squared?
What was identified as a universal force after the work of Galileo?
How might gravity effects be observed differently according to Newton?
What could be attributed to gravity acceleration around the Earth?
What is gravitational acceleration proportional to?
What is included along with gravitational acceration, and mass of the Earth in a formula about rotation about the Earth?
Who realized that the effects of gravity might be observed differently at smaller distances?
Newton said that the acceleration of the Earth around the Moon represented what?
Who realized that gravitational deceleration was proportional to mass?
Newton realized that gravitational deceleration was proportional to what?
What is used to figure the relative strengh of gravity?
Who made the first to measure value of the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant?
When was the first measurement of the value of the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant?
Who figured out that his law of gravity had to be universal?
What is used to describe the weakness of gravity?
Whose value was know in Newton's life?
Who realized that only some celestial bodies followed the same laws of motion?
Cavendish's Law of Gravitation states what?
What planet seemed to buck Newton's gravitational laws?
What planet did astrophysisist predict to explain the problems with Mercury?
What theory accounted for the Mercury problem?
Who came up with the theory of relativity?
Who first showed that Newton's Theory of Gravity was not as correct as another theory?
Whose law did not explain the orbit of the planet Saturn?
Who predicted the existence of many other planets?
Albert Einstein formulated what law?
The planet Vulcan was predicted to explain the what with planet Saturn?
What theory best explains gravity?
What space-time path is seen as a curved line in space?
What is the derivative of an object's changing momentum called?
In what sense must you be observing the curvature of space-time?
What theory least best describes gravity?
What is viewed as a force in GR?
The curved line path in space-time is seen as a what line in space?
What describes objects not moving freely?
What is the law named that defines a charge moving through a magnetic field?
What is  the time rate of change of electric charge?
What magnetic and electric force acts on a charge?
Whatare the electrostatic and magnetic force awritten as the sum of?
Lorenzo's Law describes what?
The connection between energy and what allows for a unified electromagnetic force that acts on a charge?
What force describes Lorenzo's Law?
Which law is a rule of vector addition?
Who first fully explained the origins of magnetic and electric fields?
When did the origins of magnetic and electric fields occur?
How many scalar equations were formed into a set by James Maxwell?
How many vector equations did Heaviside and Gibbs reformilate Maxwell's 20 scalar equtions into?
Who discovered that magnetic and electric could self-generate?
The origin of what would not be fully explained until 1964?
Who separated a number of earlier theories into a set of 20 scalar equations?
What was later formulated into 3 vector equations?
Who discovered that electric and magnetic fields could be "self-aware"
What was dificult to reconcile the photoelectric effect and the missing ultraviolet catastrophe?
What was used to create a new electromagnetic theory to reconcile the troubles with electromagnetic theory as it used to stand?
What did electromagnetic theory  finally lead to?
What are the wave-particles called that mediate all electromagnetic phenomena?
What is QED short for?
A new theory of what was developed using quantum particles?
What theory led to quantum electromagnetics?
Where are photons the fundamental exchange photon?
Quantum theory was used to develop a new theory of what?
What is often misunderstood as the cause of matter rigidity?
What actually causes rigidity in matter?
What is needed to pack electrons densely together?
How is the Pauli exclusion priciple manifested in the macro world?
Since electrons are minions, they cannot occupy the same what?
When electrons are loosely packed, there is not enough what?
What takes no energy to pack them together?
When what are packed together loosely is there not enough lower energy?
What does stong force act upon?
What can be seen between hadrons?
What is the force between nucleons?
How are nuclear forces transmitted?
What is the term for the lack of obsevable free quarks?
The weak force only acts on which particles?
The successful searches for what showed that the elementary particles are not observable?
The residual of what can be seen in front of hadrons?
The weak force acts upon what?
What does the W and Z boson exchange create?
What is the observable effect of W and Z boson exchange?
What is the effect of beta decay?
How many times less is the strenght of the weak field compared to the strong?
At what temperature do weak and electromagnetic forces appear the same?
The strong force is due to the exchange of what?
Alpha decay is the most familiar effect of what force?
What force is weaker than gravity over short distances?
What electroweak theory has not been developed?
What is the repulsive force of close range atom interaction?
What occurs when electron clouds overlap from different atoms?
What causes Pauli repulsion?
What is the force that causes rigid strength in structures?
What force is due to attractive forces of interaction?
What repulsion follows when atomic clouds overlap?
What is an example of the abnormal force in action?
The abnormal force is responsible for the structural integrity of what?
What can be used to model tension forces?
What do you use to let idea strings switch direction?
In what way do idea strings transmit tesion forces?
What is the final effect of adding more and more idea strings to a load?
What can increase the tension force on a load?
What forces can be modeled using ideal friction strings?
What forces can be modeled using ideal mass strings?
Ideal strings transmit what delayed forces?
What did Newton's mechanics affect?
What didn't Newton's mechanics affext?
In what kind of fluid are pressure differences caused by direction of forces over gradients?
What may a force on one part of an object affect?
What does matter actually have that Newtonian mechanics doesn't address?
What does not have extended structure?
Forces that act on one part of an object do not act on what?
In extended fluids, similarities in pressure result in forces being directed where?
Whose mechanics affected three dimensional objects?
What causes strain in structures?
What is used to calculate cross section area in the volume of an object?
What are associated with normal forces?
What includes pressure terms when calculating area in volume?
What does not cause strain in structures?
What is associated with abnormal forces?
What is associated with horizontal forces?
Another term for on-diagonal elements is what?
What is the force equivalent of torque compared to angular momentum?
What would change the rotational inertia of a body under Newton's First Law of Motion?
To calculate instant angular acceleration of a rigid body what would you use?
What inertia exists because of Newton's Fourth Law of Motion?
What equation is torque like regarding velocity?
What is the rotational equivalent of velocity?
Which of Newton's Laws described a rotational inertia equation?
Where does centripetal force go?
How do centripetal forces act in relation to vectors of velocity?
What force changes an objects direction of travel?
What is another word for centripetal force?
What is resposible for speeding up or slowing down an object?
What force changes an objects speed?
Where does the centripetal force come from?
What path changes the direction of an object?
A balance force accelerates what?
What is the only form potential energy can change into?
What is the only form kinetic energy can change into?
What is preserved in a closed system of forces when acted upon?
What is the force between two locations related to?
What is the force called rgarding a potential field between two locations?
A liberal force that acts on a closed system has what kind of mechanical work?
Net mechanical energy is what in an open system?
What can not be considered an artifact of the potential field?
A flow of water can not be considered an artifact of what?
What is sometimes impossible to model?
Why are some forces due to that are impossible to model?
What do electrostatic gradiient potentials create?
Tension, compression, and drag are what kind of forces?
It is always possible to model forces as being due to what?
Micro-physical considerations yield what?
Friction is not caused by the gradients of what?
Conservative forces include what?
In what treatment are nonconservative and conservative forces described?
What changes macroscopic closed system energies?
What is the exchange of heat associated with?
What is the law of thermodynamics associated with closed system heat exchange?
What makes energy changes in a closed system?
In macroscopic open systems, non conservative forces act to do what?
What are often associated with the transfer of cold?
Conservative forces are often associated with the transfer of what?
What does not change macroscopic closed systems?
What is the metric term less used than the Newton?
What is the kilogram-force sometimes reffered to as?
What is a very seldom used unit of mass in the metric system?
What seldom used term of a unit of force equal to 1000 pound s of force?
What is the seldom used force unit equal to one thousand newtons?
What does not have a metric counterpart?
What is the force exerted by standard gravity on one ton of mass?
What force leads to a commonly used unit of mass?
What force is part of the modern SI system?
